
Factiva
Dow Jones
Features
'Without a vaccine I'm not sure we can stop Ebola'
Michael Hanlon
1447 words
18 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
33
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The Belgian scientist who co–discovered the virus never anticipated that it would cause such a humanitarian crisis, he tells Michael Hanlon

The Ebola virus – its very name seems to have come straight from the heart of darkness – is striking fear across the globe. It has killed (officially) 4,546 people out of 9,191 infected since the first case in West Africa in December 2013, but it now poses a risk to millions. Yesterday, David Cameron, the Prime Minister, described it as the "biggest health threat to the world in a generation". A politician's soundbite, or the stark reality?

The Belgian scientist who co–discovered the virus is phlegmatic. Professor Peter Piot, now director of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, says there is good news – and bad. Back in September 1976, he was a 27–yearold researcher at a microbiology laboratory in Antwerp when he identified the new pathogen. He discovered it in vials of blood taken from a Flemish missionary nun in Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of Congo), who had died of a mysterious illness that was killing scores of people. Prof Piot flew out a few days later, part of a team who would track the virus to its source – fruit bats – in the rainforest.

He saw the effects of the disease rampaging through a remote jungle community of Yambuku, and witnessed the agonising prelude to death, of fever, dehydration, vomiting, diarrhoea and haemorrhage. The worm–shaped virus, consisting of just seven genes, attacks the immune system and dissolves the body's blood vessels. Most people who are infected die within a month.

Prof Piot knew then that he was dealing with something new and unusual, but he had not yet realised it was a virus that had the potential to kill millions.

"I could never, ever have imagined then that we would have a major epidemic from this virus," Prof Piot, now 65, says. "In 38 years we had maybe 1,500 deaths – say 40 a year. That is not a public health crisis. I never thought it would come to the point that we see today."

Despite its terrifying nature, Ebola – named after a small river near the village where the nun died – is actually a poor candidate for the "Apocalypse virus" beloved of Hollywood epics. And Prof Piot insists that it is still impossible to predict how bad the African epidemic will become.

He says that he likes to "put myself in the mind of the virus". And if you are an Ebola virus then "we humans make a very, very bad host. You need to jump to another host in a week because your host is dead".

Paradoxically, it is the very virulence of Ebola – it rapidly incapacitates its victims and kills between 50 and 70 per cent of them – that has meant all outbreaks predating this one have rapidly burnt themselves out. A virus wants its host to stay alive and mobile for as long as possible, so it can infect other people. With Ebola, once the symptoms start, you will not be going anywhere (one of the reasons that screening air passengers arriving in the UK may be pointless). Ebola is also hard to catch – it requires direct contact with bodily fluids, and you cannot infect others until you are symptomatic.

So what has changed? Earlier outbreaks occurred in remote areas of the Congo, a vast, sparsely populated nation with few roads. Such places are a form of natural quarantine, says Prof Piot, and after killing a few dozen people – most often doctors and nurses, who are most likely to be exposed to infection – these outbreaks subsided.

But the countries of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, where the current outbreak has taken root, are very different. More densely populated and urban, with better transport links, they have young, mobile populations who depend heavily on West Africa's vast fleet of shared taxis to get around (a major transmission risk, not least when they were used to transport infected corpses for burial).

Even so, Prof Piot is convinced that the world could have brought the disease rapidly under control months ago if prompt action had been taken. The World Health Organisation reacted too late, he says, and by the time the seriousness of the outbreak was fully realised it was heading out of control. According to one estimate, it will cost around £1 billion a month to build and staff the treatment centres needed to isolate a notional 100,000 patients, quarantine their contacts and prevent the disease from spreading. So far, despite vague pledges, the international community has given nothing like enough.

"The problem with Ebola is that it is not over until the last patient is either dead or has recovered," Prof Piot says. "Actually, I thought this outbreak was dying out in May, in Guinea. Then a famous woman, a traditional healer, died, and at her funeral hundreds of people touched the body. Then there was this explosion in three countries."

The spread of Ebola is, of course, fuelled by the fact that the nations affected have no health systems to speak of (in 2010 there were only 51 doctors in the whole of Liberia) and that traditional funeral practices involve the touching and kissing of the deceased.

"Can it be stopped? It will be a bumpy ride. I am worried for West Africa. We will see a decline in cases eventually, but without a vaccine I am not sure we can stop it."

Several companies are fasttracking vaccines: two in particular, one being developed in Canada and one by GlaxoSmithKline in Britain, hold promise. But yesterday GSK said their vaccine would be "too late" for this outbreak and probably not available until late 2015.

Healthcare workers are likely to be the first recipients, as it is Ebola's ability to strike the very people caring for victims that has contributed to the spread. "Ebola has literally destroyed the health services in these countries," Prof Piot says. As a result, it is quite possible that more people have died as a result of the lack of treatment for other diseases, such as malaria, than of Ebola itself.

Prof Piot admits to being "very worried" about Africa, but remains optimistic that Ebola will not be a major problem in the West. "Even in Nigeria, when they had a small epidemic, it was quickly contained. The authorities acted promptly, including a non–negotiable quarantine. Also, in Congo, a recent outbreak was contained… and Congo is not the best–organised country in the world."

However, he agrees that if the African outbreak continues to spread, it is inevitable that cases will occur elsewhere. "If it does get to the UK, I am convinced that we can contain it." He is also dismissive of claims made by several scientists that the virus could become airborne, pointing to the Aids virus as an example: "Even though it has had millions of passages through humans, HIV is still transmitted in the same way it always was."

He is more worried that Ebola will mutate into a less virulent strain (something that is more likely as it spreads through a larger population) – one that may only kill 30 per cent of those infected. "That may well lead to more secondary cases [because more infected people will be mobile for longer]."

There is no evidence that the virus is becoming more virulent and reports that the death rate have risen from 50 to 70 per cent are a result of insufficient data during the early days of the outbreak, Prof Piot insists. A strong public health message is being broadcast by local radio stations and there are signs that dangerous practices, such as open coffins at funerals, are on the wane.

There is some truth in the Prime Minister's assertion yesterday. Ebola has killed thousands of Africans and will kill tens of thousands more, possibly millions, before it is brought under control. It has the potential to destroy the economies of some of the poorest nations on Earth (Sierra Leone's nascent tourist industry is probably now dead) and spread to other continents where millions live in poverty.

But there is hope, too, says Prof Piot. "Change in behaviour has to come from within these communities, not from a bunch of white doctors telling people what to do."

And we need to spend the money. A billion pounds a month sounds a lot, but it is eight times less than the world spends on video games. We can't afford not to defeat Ebola.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141018eaai0009a


Business
Carnival steadies after Ebola scare
Ben Martin
488 words
18 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
36
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Market report

ON A BUOYANT day for the wider market, Carnival was rocked by an Ebola scare on one of its cruise ships.

Shares in the FTSE 100 company tumbled as much as 4.6pc as traders reacted to news that an American health worker travelling on the Carnival Magic vessel had been placed in isolation aboard the ship. The individual is a lab worker at the Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital and may have come into contact with specimens collected from a now deceased Liberian patient. Although the individual has shown no signs of the deadly virus, the vessel, which was bound for the Caribbean, is now en route back to Texas.

Travel–related stocks, including Carnival, have slumped in recent weeks on fears that the spread of Ebola beyond West Africa could stunt demand to travel. But despite dropping on yesterday's news, Carnival shares, which also trade in New York, recovered to close up 20p, or 0.9pc, at £22.14 in London. Greg Johnson, an analyst at Shore Capital, said he was not surprised by the rebound.

The wider market rally would have buoyed Carnival, and a survey showing US consumer sentiment was at its highest level since July 2007 would have given the stock an additional boost, he said.

The FTSE 100, shaken in recent days by a surge of volatility, enjoyed a brisk revival. Unlike Thursday, when the index swung violently between a strong rise and a heavy loss, the FTSE 100 managed to improve on early gains to close up 114.38 points at 6,310.29, a 1.9pc rise that was its biggest since July last year.

A rally in oil stocks, on the back of a rise in crude prices, also helped to pull the London market higher. Tullow Oil jumped 40.1p to 524p and Ophir Energy advanced 12.3p to 194.4p.

An upgrade to "buy" at Societe Generale gave an extra boost to Tullow. Analysts at the broker said: "Tullow Oil's share price has collapsed 44pc in the year to date due to the triple whammy of falling oil prices, mixed drilling results and concerns over a lack of progress with its asset disposal strategy." However, the group's "financials remain strong", and its "size and balance sheet strength should … allow it to ride out the current lower oil price environment".

A well–received trading update from Petrofac, in which the oilfield services group stuck with its full–year profit guidance, lifted the shares 72½p higher to £10.60. Liberum analysts said the "market generally expected Petrofac to miss this year's guidance".

Royal Mail was another FTSE 100 riser, gaining 19.1p to 431.7p after heavyweight broker Morgan Stanley upgraded the stock to "equal weight".

Rolls–Royce was the bluechip laggard, slumping 108½p, or 11.5pc, to 832p following a fresh profit warning.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141018eaai00087


News
0.99pc: the cheapest mortgage deal ever
Dan Hyde
967 words
18 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
9
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
ONE OF Britain's biggest banks will today cut mortgage rates to 0.99 per cent, a record low, igniting a price war that will reduce the cost of home loans by thousands of pounds.

The HSBC loan was the cheapest ever in Britain, mortgage experts said, indicating that the housing market could boom after a summer lull.

Mortgage brokers said someone borrowing £150,000 could cut monthly repayments by £3,500 a year by switching to the new deal.

Borrowers should expect a flurry of "headline–grabbing" deals, experts said, with banks competing fiercely for custom.

David Hollingworth, of brokerage London & Country, said: "This is a massive cut, an astonishingly low rate and will allow some families to cut huge amounts off their bills. The summer is always quiet in the property market, but now lenders are showing an appetite to fight for business — and that competition is excellent news."

The Bank of England said yesterday that interest rates could stay low for longer due to "gloomier" forecasts for the global economy.

Invoking a cricketing metaphor, the central bank said it would play "on the back foot" as it planned its next interest rate rise.

Andy Haldane, one of nine policy makers who decided the rate, said low wage growth in Britain, falling oil prices and global "risks", such as tensions in Ukraine, Hong Kong and the Ebola crisis, had made him "gloomier" about the economy's prospects.

"Interest rates could remain lower for longer, certainly [longer] than I had expected three months ago," he said in a speech in Kenilworth.

The current 0.5 per cent rate is now expected to rise in late 2015, rather than the spring, allowing borrowers to enjoy lower costs for longer.

Mark Harris, of mortgage brokerage Anderson Harris, said that gave the green light for lenders to reduce loan rates to new lows.

Within six months, borrowers might be able to lock into a five–year, fixed–rate deal at less than 2 per cent, he said, marking a significant reduction from 2.59 per cent today.

If better mortgage deals stimulated activity in the market, the experts said, it could fuel house price rises.

Figures this week gave further indication of a slowdown in the pace at which property prices were rising. Prices had risen 11.7 per cent in a year, according to the Office for National Statistics, valuing the average property at £274,000. House prices in London were still rising faster than the rest of the country, increasing 19.6 per cent in 12 months, the ONS said. Its data followed a survey from Nationwide Building Society that indicated prices fell slightly in September.

Martin Beck, an economist at the Ernst & Young ITEM Club, said: "In isolation, falling mortgage rates and an imminent price war could spur demand and certainly act to boost the housing market.

"House prices, for many people, have risen so high that they've lost interest — but more affordable mortgage rates could stop this holding back demand."

The Bank has warned that a bubble in house prices could tip the UK back into recession if it expands too quickly.

A concern that home buyers were over–stretching themselves led the Bank to limit the number of people borrowing more than four–and–a–half times their salaries. Borrowers, it has said, may also be asked to find larger deposits.

HSBC's 0.99 per cent loan is available from Monday, provided borrowers have a 40 per cent deposit or equity in the property.

The cost is linked to the bank's standard variable rate (SVR) of 3.94 per cent. It is effectively a 2.95 per cent "discount" from that rate, lasting two years. After that, borrowers will need to remortgage or their costs will rise.

A spokesman for HSBC said the SVR was only likely to rise within the two–year period if the base rate increased, probably by a similar amount.

Mr Hollingworth warned that the "catch" with the deal was a £1,999 set–up fee, which he described as "high". As a result, it was more suited to people borrowing large amounts, he said.

The next best deal was a 1.44 per cent rate from Norwich & Peterborough, Mr Hollingworth said. The monthly cost of £596 was £31 more expensive than the HSBC deal for someone borrowing £150,000. However, the fee was just £345.

Fewer mortgages were issued over the summer due to the introduction of strict rules that required lenders to delve into borrowers' spending habits to check they could afford the repayments if interest rates rose.

Rachel Springall, of financial information website Moneyfacts, said: "We are likely to see more headline–grabbing deals as the year comes to a close."

A mortgage rate of less than one per cent is believed to have been available in the mid–Nineties. However, brokers said it operated more like an introductory offer, where the borrower was forced to move on to a higher rate later in the loan term, and so was "not comparable" to the HSBC loan.

The cost to lenders of offering a mortgage fell suddenly this week, as stock markets fell around the world on Wednesday.

Kevin Mountford, of Moneysupermarket.com, said the next few months would provide one of the best periods in history to lock into a new mortgage deal.

"If your current mortgage deal is soon to expire, start looking for the next best now," he said. "You can often reserve deals up to six months in advance if you don't need to switch right away."

'This is a massive cut, an astonishingly low rate and will allow families to cut huge amounts off their bills'

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141018eaai0007z


News
Ebola screening widens amid 'biggest threat in a generation'
Edward Malnick; Christopher Hope; Georgia Graham; Nick Allen
499 words
18 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
14
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
EBOLA screening will be extended to two more of Britain's major airports, it has been disclosed, as David Cameron warned the disease was "the biggest health problem facing our world in a generation".

Passengers at Manchester and Birmingham Airports will be assessed for signs of the virus once the arrangements covering Heathrow, Gatwick and the Eurostar terminal at St Pancras have "settled", the head of Public Health England said yesterday.

However, Downing Street said that just five people travelling from affected countries in West Africa were screened for Ebola on Tuesday, the first day of checks for the illness, despite official estimates that 1,000 people a month would try to come to Britain from the countries.

The disclosures came amid mounting concern over the scale of international efforts to deal with the epidemic in West Africa, as Jim Yong Kim, the World Bank chief, warned that "we are losing the battle" because some countries were "only worried about their own borders".

A leaked draft document yesterday showed that the World Health Organisation acknowledged that it botched attempts to stop the outbreak in West Africa, blaming factors including incompetent staff and a lack of information. The virus has already killed an estimated 4,555 people.

Yesterday, UK cruise liners said they were taking the threat of deadly Ebola "very seriously" after a US health–care worker was quarantined on board a ship.

President Barack Obama separately appointed an Ebola "tsar" to manage the crisis.

Some boarding schools in Britain are writing to parents to find out whether their children are going to areas hit by the outbreak, amid fears that they will return with the virus.

Mr Cameron called on fellow EU leaders to "significantly step up" their contribution to tackling the outbreak, suggesting other countries were failing to shoulder their share of the burden.

Kofi Annan, the former United Nations secretary general, had said he was "bitterly disappointed" at the scale and speed of the international response.

While there are no direct flights to the UK from the three worst affected countries, Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea, Downing Street has said that passengers arriving via another destination on a single ticket were being "required" to undergo screening.

No 10 estimated around 1,000 people a month will try to come to Britain from one of the affected countries via Brussels, Paris or Casablanca.

But the Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "I can say that on Tuesday there were five people on a single ticket and all were screened."

Britain is putting £125million towards fighting Ebola – the highest sum after the US. Yesterday, a video emerged of one of two nurses who caught the virus after treating a man who died of it in the US.

Sitting up in her hospital bed, a tearful Nina Pham told fellow nurses: "I love you guys."

We need a vaccine: Page 33

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141018eaai0006g


NEWS
Fight to stop Ebola being lost, World Bank warns
By Agencies
922 words
18 October 2014
01:02 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
World Bank chief blames a lack of international solidarity in efforts to stem the epidemic

The World Bank warned on Friday the fight to stop Ebola was being lost, as the UN pleaded for more money to combat the escalating epidemic and global travel fears mounted.

As the death toll from the world's worst-ever outbreak of the virus shot past 4,500, a glimmer of hope came from Senegal, which was declared Ebola-free by the World Health Organisation.

The United States, meanwhile, named an "Ebola czar" to coordinate its response, after criticism of how a Texas hospital handled a Liberian victim, with two nurses who treated him now infected.

And a researcher at British pharmaceuticals giant GlaxoSmithKline said a vaccine may not be ready for commercial use until late 2016.

"We are losing the battle," World Bank chief Jim Yong Kim warned, blaming a lack of international solidarity in efforts to stem the epidemic.

"Certain countries are only worried about their own borders," he told reporters in Paris.

As of October 14, 4,555 people have died from Ebola out of a total of 9,216 cases registered in seven countries, the WHO says.

Most of the dead are in three West African nations at the centre of the outbreak: Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.

Experts warn that the infection rate could hit 10,000 a week by early December.

The United Nations has warned that it has received less than 40 percent of the nearly $1 billion it asked for to fight Ebola.

So far, just $377 million has come in, and another $217 million has been pledged, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said.

"But that's not money in the bank," OCHA spokesman Jens Laerke told reporters in Geneva.

And a UN trust fund for Ebola has just $100,000, despite $20 million in pledges - a situation UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said had left the world body with a "very serious problem."

"We need to turn pledges into action. We need more doctors, nurses, equipment, treatment centres and medical evacuation capacities," he said.

Despite enhanced health checks at airports in several countries, fears mounted, and Air France flight attendants called for an end to flights to Guinea, one of the three hardest-hit nations in West Africa.

The daily Air France Paris-Conakry flight "carries a serious risk of spreading the epidemic, particularly in our country," read a statement from the two unions of flight crew and commercial staff.

France will on Saturday start carrying out health checks on travellers arriving from Guinea. The United States, Britain and Canada have already launched screenings at airports for passengers from Ebola-hit zones. The EU is reviewing the matter.

In the United States, health authorities were still facing questions about how the disease - which kills around 70 percent of those it infects in West Africa - had spread at a Texas hospital.

Other questions surfaced about the safety protocols in place for those who came in contact either with a Liberian man who died of Ebola at the hospital, or the two infected nurses who treated him.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has expanded the number of airline passengers it wants to interview after the second nurse, Amber Vinson, flew from Dallas to Cleveland and back before being diagnosed.

And another Texas health care worker who may have come in contact with samples from the Liberian Ebola victim has voluntarily quarantined herself aboard a cruise ship in the Caribbean.

Although that woman is considered at "very low risk" of infection, according to Carnival Cruise Lines, the ship was apparently denied entry at ports in Belize and Mexico, and was headed back to the US.

The US State Department deputy spokeswoman, Marie Harf, told reporters at a briefing that the ship, now en route to Galveston, Texas, is due to dock on Sunday.

Symptoms of Ebola include fever, headache, diarrhoea, vomiting and in some cases bleeding.

Even if a person is infected, the virus can only be passed on once symptoms appear and only through direct contact with their bodily fluids, such as mucus, semen, saliva, vomit, stool or blood.

The WHO is ramping up its efforts to help 15 African countries defend themselves against Ebola - notably with measures to better protect health workers, who are paying a heavy price, with 236 deaths out of 427 cases across the affected countries.

The East African Community bloc comprising Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda and Tanzania announced it was sending more than 600 health workers to Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.

And US Secretary of State John Kerry offered a rare praise to Cuba, which has sent 165 health care workers and plans to send 300 more to battle the outbreak.

A string of health workers have been evacuated back to Europe from Africa with Ebola, but the only confirmed case of transmission on the continent so far is a Spanish nurse in Madrid.

Health authorities held up Senegal as a shining example of success in an otherwise dire global outlook on Ebola.

"Senegal's response is a good example of what to do when faced with an imported case of Ebola," the WHO said, lauding the government for having "reacted quickly to stop the disease from spreading".

Nigeria, where 20 people were infected and eight died, is expected to be declared Ebola-free on Monday. But neither is out of danger.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141018eaai000b5


NEWS
Dallas Ebola hospital worker quarantined on Caribbean cruise ship
By Nick Allen Dallas
503 words
17 October 2014
02:57 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A lab supervisor who processed samples from American Ebola patient at Dallas hospital quarantines herself on a cruise ship in the Caribbean, although experts says she is "very low risk"

A health worker who treated the first person to be diagnosed with Ebola in the US has locked herself in her cabin on a cruise ship in the Caribbean.

The unnamed lab supervisor is thought to have processed clinical specimens from Thomas Eric Duncan, who died at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas on Oct 8.

Four days later she went on holiday and boarded the Carnival Magic cruise ship in Galveston, Texas.

She is not showing symptoms but decided to quarantine herself on the ship as a precaution. The incubation period for Ebola is 21 days and it is now 19 days since she had contact with the specimens.

The development came as Ban Ki-moon, the UN Secretary General, made an urgent appeal for funds and disclosed that a trust he set up to fight the disease has only received $100,000 of the $20 million pledged.

He said the organisation needs $1 billion. According to the New York Times, the $100,000 came from Colombia.

The Carnival Magic, which can carry 3,690 passengers and 1,367 crew, stopped in Belize but the country's coast guard was deployed to prevent anyone, including the captain, from disembarking.

Belize refused a request from the US to use an airport there to fly the passenger home.

A Belize government spokesman said: "The passenger never set foot in Belize. When even the smallest doubt remains, we will ensure the health and safety of the Belizean people."

Carnival Cruise Lines said the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention had deemed the passenger to be "very low risk".

It said: "At this time, the guest remains in isolation on board the ship and is not deemed to be a risk to any guests or crew.

"It is important to reiterate that the individual has no symptoms and has been isolated in an extreme abundance of caution.

"We are in close contact with the CDC and at this time it has been determined that the appropriate course of action is to simply keep the guest in isolation on board."

The US State Department said it was working with the cruise line to bring the health worker back to the US "out of an abundance of caution".

Two nurses who treated Mr Duncan have so far been diagnosed with the virus and have been moved to other hospitals away from Dallas.

More than a week after Mr Duncan died dozens of hospital staff in Dallas, who had contact with Mr Duncan, have finally been required to sign legal documents in which they agree to stay at home.

From now on they will not be allowed to go to public places such as shops or restaurants, or use transport including planes and trains.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141017eaah004xv


NEWS
Everything you need to know about Obama's 'Ebola czar'
By Raf Sanchez Washington
488 words
17 October 2014
02:44 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Ron Klain isn't a doctor but he knows how the US government works (and Kevin Spacey once played him in a film)

After the US[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/] government fumbled its response to the first case of Ebola in America, President Barack Obama has appointed an "Ebola czar" to coordinate the country's efforts.

His pick is Ron Klain, a Democrat[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/democrats/] lawyer and former senior White House aide. Here's what you need to know about him:

He's not a doctor...

The man the President has tapped to lead America's effort against Ebola has no medical background. Mr Klain is a Harvard lawyer by training but he's best known as a Democrat political operative who preps the party's presidential candidates ahead of television debates.

... but he knows how the government works

Mr Klain may know little about public health but he understands how the US government works (and doesn't work). He was chief of staff for Al Gore when he was vice-president and then returned to the same job when Joe Biden became vice-president in 2009. He was also in the running to be the White House chief of staff, one of the most powerful jobs in America.

Obama[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/barackobama/] trusts him...

Mr Obama had a disastrous first debate against Mitt Romney in 2012, so bad that some openly questioned if he had just lost his chance for a second term in office. It fell to Mr Klain to stage an intervention and tell the world's most powerful man that he needed to get his act together. Mr Obama listened to his advice, won the next two debates and, ultimately, a second term.

... but Republicans[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/republicans/] don't

It was John McCain, the Republican 2008 presidential contender, who first called for an "ebola czar". But the czar Mr Obama has picked is unlikely to please his political opponents. Mr Klain is seen by Republicans as a partisan rather than a policy expert. Here's one Republican congressman's response.

Twitter: John Fleming - Obama appoints Ebola czar - a political activist & not even a doctor. Shows where the priorities of POTUS reside. http://t.co/8U3UkDmQGw[http://t.co/8U3UkDmQGw]

He worked for Al Gore during the 2000 election recount...

Mr Klain was at the heart of the ugly legal battle that followed the disputed 2000 election between Al Gore and George W Bush. For several weeks after the election the world watched in horror as America was unable to decide who had won the state of Florida, and with it the White House. Mr Klain battled on the Democratic side but the issue was ultimately decided by the Supreme Court in George W Bush's favour.

... and Kevin Spacey once played him in a film

The Florida drama was turned into an HBO movie called recount. It starred Kevin Spacey as Ron Klain.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141017eaah004sb


LIFESTYLE
What's on this weekend: multiple model railways and glorious autumn shades
532 words
17 October 2014
12:41 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Our guide to family-friendly activities all over the UK this weekend and beyond, from hard-pressed apples to an illuminated abbey

WHAT'S ON

National Festival of Railway Modelling[http://www.model-railways-live.co.uk]

October 18 and 19, East of England Showground, Peterborough PE2 6XE. Adults £10, children £4.50, family £29.

No fewer than 30 fascinating model railway layouts up and running, tended by the individuals and societies who created them, and a massive range of specialist suppliers and experts on hand to advise hobbyists on techniques and new products.

Cromford Apple Day[http://www.scarthinbooks.com]

October 18, Scarthin Promenade, Cromford, Derbyshire DE4 3QF, noon-5pm

Local people can bring their apples and pears for pressing into juice and (eventually) cider. There will be a longest-peel competition plus morris men, music and children’s activities.

Autumn Watch at Batsford Arboretum[http://www.batsarb.co.uk]

Bourton-on-the-Hill, nr Moreton-in-Marsh, Glos GL56 9AD. Adults £7, children £3, family £17.

A spectacular display of autumn colours among the foliage at this popular Cotswold arboretum. Terrace café, gift and plant store.

Fountains by Floodlight[http://www.nationaltrust.org.uk/fountains-abbey]

Oct 18, Oct 25, Nov 1, Fountains Abbey, Fountains, Ripon, North Yorkshire HG4 3DY. Adults £5.25, children £2.63, family £13.13.

See the romantically ruined abbey bathed in golden hues, grab something hot and scrummy to eat and settle down to a live choral performance in the cellarium.

What’s trending

Forget everything you think you know about tinned potatoes: according to those who follow these things on Mumsnet[http://www.mumsnet.com], it’s time to put your prejudices aside and tuck in. Following a thread on which posters swapped money-saving tips from the supermarkets, tinned potatoes came out as unlikely dinner-plate heroes. And while the recommendations were met with predictable horror in some quarters (“waxy, tasteless, heavy balls of nothing!”) the consensus was that they have many uses. They are, for instance, great in curries, brilliant in frittatas and delicious in hashes or “sliced up and fried with onions and bacon”. Not to mention the fact that they make a useful store-cupboard item in the light of an impending Ebola crisis. And all for the bargain price of as little as 15p a tin. What’s not to like?

We’re loving…

Bubba Gump Shrimp Co[http://www.bubbagump.com]

The Forrest Gump-themed American restaurant begins its plans for (modest) world domination by opening its first UK branch in the Trocadero, adjacent to Piccadilly Circus at the heart of London’s West End. If for some reason this fails to sate your taste for US treats, M&M’s World is just around the corner.

We're drinking

Darjeeling Gimlet

The gimlet has a nice Chandleresque feel. This one is made fragrant with a dash of tea. Shake 50ml good gin (we used Burleigh’s), 25ml Darjeeling tea, 20ml lime juice and a scant teaspoon of white sugar vigorously with lots of ice; pour into a martini or similar glass (chilled beforehand, ideally) and serve. Garnish with lime peel if you’re feeling fancy. As served as London's Merchant House bar.

See more soigné cocktail recipes online at telegraph.co.uk/food[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/food]

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141017eaah004bo


NEWS
Watch: David Cameron says Ebola is 'biggest health threat to our world in a generation'
By Charlotte Krol video source ITN
170 words
17 October 2014
12:17 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Prime Minister David Cameron says the best way to protect people in Europe from Ebola is to tackle the deadly virus in West Africa

David Cameron said Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] is the "biggest health problem facing our world in a generation" as he urged foreign leaders to "step forward" with more resources to fight the crisis.

The Prime Minister urged other leaders to "look to their responsibilities" to help tackle the outbreak od Ebola outbreak in West Africa[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/] .

He said Britain was "leading the way" in providing assistance to the region as he backed a call by United Nations secretary-general Ban Ki-moon for other countries to deliver more funding.

Speaking as he arrived at the Asia[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/] Europe summit in Milan, Italy[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/italy/], he said: "This is the biggest health problem facing our world in a generation. It is very likely to affect a number of the countries here today."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141017eaah0043c


NEWS
Ebola is the 'biggest health threat to our world in a generation' - David Cameron
By Georgia Graham Political Correspondent in Milan
560 words
17 October 2014
10:58 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Prime Minister tells other world leaders to 'look to their responsibilities'" in fighting ebola as Royal Navy sets sail for West Africa

Ebola is the "biggest health problem facing our world in a generation", David Cameron has said, as he urged foreign leaders to "step forward" with more resources to fight the crisis.

The Prime Minister urged other leaders to "look to their responsibilities" to help tackle the Ebola epidemic ravaging parts of West Africa.

Britain, he said, was "leading the way" in providing assistance to the region as he backed a call by United Nations secretary-general Ban Ki-moon for other countries to deliver more funding.

Speaking as he arrived at the Asia Europe summit in Milan, Italy, he said: "This is the biggest health problem facing our world in a generation. It is very likely to affect a number of the countries here today."

He said: "Britain, in my view, has been leading the way. The action we are taking in Sierra Leone where we are committing well over £100 million, 750 troops, training 800 members of health staff, providing 700 beds; we are doing a huge amount.

"I think it is time for other countries to look at their responsibilities and their resources and act in a similar way to what Britain is doing in Sierra Leone, America is doing in Liberia, France is doing in Guinea.

"Other countries now need to step forward with resources and action because taking action at source in West Africa is the best way to protect all of us here in Europe."

His call came after Mr Ban said last night that a "huge and urgent global response".

However, of some $20 million (£12.4 million) that has been pledged to a trust fund set up by Mr Ban, only $100,000 has so far been received.

A wider UN appeal has received £234 million in pledges - about 38% of the amount sought - though some countries are also providing help directly to affected countries and humanitarian agencies.

The World Health Organisation has reported a total of 8,997 cases of Ebola, including 4,493 deaths up to the end of October 12 - the vast majority of them in the three West African countries at the centre of the outbreak.

Kofi Annan, Mr Ban's predecessor, said he was "bitterly disappointed" at the scale and speed of the international community's response to the crisis and said western countries "only really woke up" when the virus spread to Europe and America.

He said: "I point the finger of blame at the governments with capacity ... I think there's enough blame to go around."

A team of British Army medics arrived in Sierra Leone yesterday to work at a UK-supported treatment centre, which has 12 of its 92 beds set aside for healthcare workers who risk infection while treating others.

The Royal Navy medical ship RFA Argus, which has a fully-equipped 100-bed hospital on board, is setting sail from Cornwall to join the humanitarian effort and is due to reach the area by the end of the month. It will be reserved for UK military who fall ill or are injured while working in the affected countries.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141017eaah003s5


NEWS
Boarding schools write to parents over Ebola fears
By Edward Malnick
523 words
17 October 2014
10:35 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Schools are monitoring the travel arrangements of pupils from abroad and being told to look out for Ebola symptoms as part of plans to prevent an outbreak in Britain

Boarding schools are writing to parents to find out if children are going to areas hit by the Ebola [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] outbreak, amid fears they could return with the disease.

Headmasters said they are now “monitoring” the travel arrangements of pupils during school holidays and half term breaks.

The Boarding Schools’ Association told the TES[http://www.tes.co.uk/article.aspx?storyCode=6446867] that several concerns about the possibility of pupils coming into contact with Ebola victims abroad had been raised by its members, prompting the organisation to issue formal advice to school leaders.

The move came as schools in the South London boroughs of Lambeth and Southwark, which have large numbers of pupils whose families are from affected countries in West Africa, were urged by their local authorities to heed official guidance from Public Health England (PHE).

“While the risk…is very low even for people travelling to the affected countries, there is a need to have in place all measures to prevent any risk of transmission,” a letter from council leaders stated.

Rossall School, a boarding school in Fleetwood, Lancashire, which teaches pupils from 50 countries, asked parents in a letter in August to notify staff if their child has visited one of the affected countries or come into close contact with someone who had.

Pupils believed to be at risk were given the option of being examined by the school doctor “immediately upon arrival” after the summer holidays. A similar letter will be sent out before the half-term break.

Guidance issued by PHE states: “It remains unlikely but not impossible that persons infected in Guinea, Liberia or Sierra Leone could arrive in the UK.”

It provides step-by-step advice for dealing with pupils who are suspected of being infected with Ebola.

Pupils who have recently spent time in Guinea, Liberia or Sierra Leone and exhibit symptoms such as fever, diarrhoea, vomiting, and weakness, should be seen immediately by medical staff.

“When referring them to the local ambulance service/initial responders, specify it is for a child/student who has recently returned from a country involved in the current Ebola outbreak and they are suspected to have Ebola,” the guidance states. “This ensures healthcare professionals use the appropriate personal protective equipment.”

Robin Fletcher, national director of the Boarding Schools’ Association, said: “With a rich mix of overseas students, you do get concerns being raised and questions being asked.

“What we are saying is that it is a managed situation…and every school has a nurse who can keep up to date with the latest official advice.”

Last week it emerged that a healthy nine-year-old boy from Sierra Leone had been banned from attending a school in Stockport[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11148088/Healthy-boy-barred-from-UK-school-amid-Ebola-hysteria.html], with the headteacher blaming a "misguided hysteria" among parents.

Despite being screened by the Health Protection Agency and given the lowest risk level possible, the school barred Kofi Mason-Sesay from lessons after a “misguided hysteria” swept through parents.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141017eaah003ml


NEWS
The survivors; portraits of Liberians who recovered from Ebola
44 words
17 October 2014
08:57 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Photographer John Moore has captured powerful images of Liberians who have made a full recovery from Ebola

Photographer John Moore has captured powerful images of Liberians who have made a full recovery from Ebola

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141017eaah0035x


NEWS
Ebola screening to be extended to Manchester and Birmingham airports
By Danny Boyle and agency
329 words
17 October 2014
06:48 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Public Health England says screening of passengers arriving from Ebola-affected countries to be rolled out to airports after Gatwick and St Pancras

Ebola [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] screening is to be extended to Manchester and Birmingham airports.

Public Health England said staff will begin checking arrivals from countries affected with the disase.

Chief executive Duncan Selbie said it will come after the checks are introduced at Gatwick and St Pancras next week.

Ebola screening of some passengers arriving at Heathrow from Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea began earlier this week[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11160038/Ebola-crisis-huge-disruption-expected-at-Heathrow-as-screening-begins.html] .

The Government had earlier insisted additional checks were not necessary, but changed guidance following advice from the Chief Medical Officer Dame Sally Davies.

The guidelines for enhanced screening include people being questioned about travel arrangements and recent contacts.

Jeremy Hunt, the Health Secretary, last week admitted that one in 10 taking indirect routes would slip through screening.

He told MPs it was "likely" that Ebola will be seen in the UK and a "handful" of cases could be confirmed in the next three months.

The virus has already killed an estimated 4,500 people in West Africa.

In his weekly message to staff, Mr Selbie said that once the existing measures covering Heathrow, Gatwick and the Eurostar terminal at St Pancras had "settled", they would be rolled out to other ports of entry.

"Next week the focus will be on Gatwick and St Pancras and, once settled there, we will then move to include Manchester and Birmingham," he said.

"I appreciate very much that we are taking people away from their normal work, and please be assured that we are thinking hard and listening carefully to those on the ground to see how we can make this more sustainable.

"What I am certain of is that we have the people who know how to keep the country safe and that is exactly what we will do."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141017eaah002bh


NEWS
Ebola airport checks must take place across Europe, says Cameron
By Steven Swinford Senior Political Correspondent
1028 words
17 October 2014
06:23 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
To date only Britain, France and the Czech Republic have introduced the checks for people travelling from West Africa.

David Cameron said that other European countries "must do more" to stop the spread of Ebola by introducing screening at their airports.

The Prime Minister will use a summit of European leaders in Italy to push for joint acion to "strengthen protection across the board".

In Britain, screening has already been introduced at Heathrow airport for people from affected countries and next week will be rolled out at Gatwick and Eurostar.

Ministers are considering whether to extend the screening to other regional airports and ports to stop the spread of the disease.

To date only Britain, France and the Czech Republic have introduced the checks for people travelling from West Africa. Almost every other nation has claimed that the checks are unnecessary.

Mr Cameron's frustration with other European nations emerged from an emergency Cobra meeting yesterday.

The Number 10 spokesman said: "There was a detailed update about plans for protecting the UK against Ebola. The Health Secretary set out that screening was up and running across all Heathrow terminals and would be in place at Gatwick and St Pancras during the next week.

"There was a discussion regarding screening across Europe and the Prime Minister made clear other countries needed to do more and introduce their own checks if we are to strengthen protection across the board."

The concerns came amid criticism of the US response, after a nurse with Ebola was allowed to board a flight from Ohio to Texas despite telling officials she had a fever.

American authorities are trying to track down 132 passengers who were on board with Amber Joy Vinson - who was infected along with a colleague after caring for a patient in Texas.

President Barack Obama has cancelled political campaigning engagements to focus on the problem, promising a "much more aggressive" approach to the disease.

Meanwhile, three people are being tested in Spain, including one who arrived on an Air France jet that was isolated at Madrid airport as a precaution.

The man - who had travelled from Lagos, Nigeria - was taken by ambulance to Madrid's Carlos III hospital, with the driver wearing full protective gear.

Another person who came into contact with infected Spanish nursing assistant Teresa Romero has a high temperature and is being monitored, and a missionary who recently went to Ebola-hit Liberia is being tested after developing a fever.

British army medics have begun arriving in Sierra Leone to help with the battle against the disease.

A team of 91, including nurses, doctors and infectious disease consultants, will join 40 soldiers already in the west African country to work at a UK-supported treatment centre, which has 12 of its 92 beds set aside for healthcare workers who risk infection while treating others.

Their deployment comes ahead of the departure tomorrow of Royal Navy ship RFA Argus, which is due to reach the area by the end of the month with a further 225 military personnel from a total planned deployment of 750.

A Downing Street spokesman said a Cobra emergency committee meeting chaired by Mr Cameron heard that the Chief Medical Officer still regarded the risk to the UK as "low".

"There was a discussion over the need for the international community to do much more to support the fight against the disease in the region," the spokesman said. "This included greater co-ordination of the international effort, an increase in the amount of spending and more support for international workers who were, or who were considering, working in the region.

"The Prime Minister set out that he wanted to make progress on these issues at the European Council next week."

World Health Organisation (WHO) director of strategy Christopher Dye said the introduction of Ebola into the US or other countries in Western Europe was a matter "for very serious concern".

"The possibility that once an infection has been introduced, that it spreads elsewhere, is something that everybody is going to be concerned about," he said.

"We're confident that in North America and Western Europe where health systems are very strong, that we're unlikely to see a major outbreak in any of those places."

The WHO has reported a total of 8,997 cases of Ebola, including 4,493 deaths up to the end of October 12, the vast majority of them in the three west African countries of Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea.

Premier League clubs have said their doctors will closely monitor players who are returning from African Nations Cup qualifiers.

Although no players have travelled back to the UK from the worst-affected parts of West Africa, the issue has been considered by club medics.

A football source said the Premier League was not "particularly concerned" about any risk of the deadly virus being brought back.

"Players are probably more closely monitored health-wise than any individuals in the country," the source said.

Speaking to reporters during a ministerial visit to the West Midlands, Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt praised the bravery of health workers involved in the fight to contain Ebola.

He told reporters: "I think we will see someone with Ebola arriving in the UK and the Chief Medical Officer thinks it will be a handful of cases in the next three months.

"We have to be prepared. We have very strict procedures and we have to make sure everyone knows those procedures."

Questioned about the handling of Ebola cases in the United States, Mr Hunt said: "I think what strikes me about what's happened in America is, first of all, the bravery of healthcare workers, nurses and doctors treating people with Ebola. It can never be entirely risk-free.

"The second point is that we've never had to deal with a global acute public health emergency like this before.

"We have to keep looking at the scientific evidence, keep asking ourselves whether the procedures are correct, and be willing to change them if the medical or the scientific advice changes."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141017eaah000xd


FINANCE
FTSE 100 swings violently in volatile trading
By Ben Martin
630 words
17 October 2014
05:35 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
London's benchmark swung towards a correction taking the blue-chips down nearly 10pc from their peak

Global stock markets suffered another day of tumultuous trading that sent London’s FTSE 100 to the brink of a correction.

Britain’s benchmark index, which dropped 2.8pc a day earlier[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/markets/marketreport/11163622/US-economic-fears-spark-global-sell-off.html], swung violently, rising as much as 1.2pc only to tumble and then trade down 2.2pc.

The index then rallied to finish a modest 0.3pc lower at 6,195.91, after James Bullard, the head of the St Louis Federal Reserve, said the US central bank could delay the end of its quantitative easing programme. The decline meant the FTSE 100 closed 9.9pc beneath its peak for the year, just shy of the 10pc fall that marks a technical correction.

The gyrations in London were mirrored by Wall Street, where the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged more than 200 points in early trade before paring its losses after the comments from Mr Bullard buoyed investor sentiment.

The Fed’s stimulus measures have been instrumental in supressing volatility and pushing up share prices in the past two years. As a result, investors have until recently been able to shirk off weak economic data from around the world, the falling oil price rising geopolitical tensions and the spread of Ebola.

“You can use any one or a combination of those headwinds to blame for the current market weakness,” said Guy Ellison, head of equity research at Investec Wealth & Investment. “I think a lot of it comes down to the fact we’ve had a correction coming.

“If you look the magnitude and number of corrections we’ve seen, particularly in the US over the last three or four years, the quantum of any fall in the States had been getting smaller and smaller and volatility was abnormally low.”

Meanwhile, European stock markets were rattled by growing fears about Greece, where borrowing costs spiked as high as 8.995pc - well above the 7pc level that is seen as unsustainable - amid worries the anti-bailout Syriza party could come to power next year.

There is also concern the government’s plan to exit its rescue programme a year early could leave Greece unable to fund itself on the bond markets.

Spain, another of Europe's peripheral nations, also failed to raise the raise the maximum €3.5bn it sought from a bond sale. Adding to Europe's woes was inflation data, which showed that Greece and Spain, as well as Italy, Slovenia and Slovakia were all hit by deflation last month.

The worries over Greece, combined with signs of a slowdown in Germany and weak data from the US have been blamed for heightened fears about the health of the global economy.

Goldman Sachs economists said that investor worries were overdone.

"Markets appear to be pricing a sharp downgrade to both US and global growth views and significantly lower inflation risk across the major economies than they were a few weeks ago," they said.

"Economic reality appears to have changed less. Global growth has been slowing, but the move has been gradual and there is little sign that it is accelerating. US momentum has softened a little too, but we expect growth to remain solidly above trend. At the same time, the drop in oil prices is as much a reflection of supply as demand factors."

Stock markets around the world plunged on Wednesday, and yields on 10-year US treasuries tumbled[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/markets/marketreport/11166249/Telegraph-Markets-Webchat.html],in the wake of soft retail and manufacturing data from the US. The drop suffered by the FTSE 100 wiped £46bn off the index and volatility, as measured by America's Vix index, surged as much as 36pc.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141016eaag005k2


FINANCE
Markets in turmoil as growth fears deepen: as it happened
By Mehreen Khan and Denise Roland
1992 words
17 October 2014
05:24 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Federal Reserve hints at extending quantitative easing programme as markets recover from another day of turmoil

Fed readies for QE4

FTSE pulls back

German concerns

Asset buying from the ECB

More QE from the Fed?

Greek tragedy?

More lowflation

Oil prices plunge

12.20 In another sign of the global distress hitting markets today, the price of WTI crude oil has fallen below $80 for first time since June 2012.

A long overdue regime shift?

Europe's fear index has spiked

Time warp: are we back in 2008?

Bail-out number three for Greece?

Goldman: Markets are probably over-reacting

Bund yields slide as investors flock to safety

Chaos has returned to the markets

• FTSE 100 swings in volatile trade[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/newsbysector/epic/ftse100/11168248/Markets-rebound-after-day-of-turmoil-in-global-markets.html]

• Bund yields tumble as investors flock to safety

• Greek bonds soar above 9pc

• Six reasons why stock markets are tumbling[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/personalfinance/investing/11166220/Six-reasons-why-stock-markets-are-tumbling.html]

Wrap-up

17.50 Here's the latest on today's stock movements, as most indices have pared back their losses after a tumultuous early morning's trading.

FTSE100: closes - 0.25pc

Dow Jones: -0.16pc

S&P 500: -0.3pc

Nasdaq: -0.3pc

FTSEurofirst 300: -0.5pc

17.42

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en"> #FTSE[https://twitter.com/hashtag/FTSE?src=hash] 100 biggest fallers: Shire (-7.33%) / Royal Dutch Shell (-2.27%) / Aviva Plc (-2.18%) http://t.co/oLKzQs4T5G[http://t.co/oLKzQs4T5G]

— LondonStockExchange (@LSEplc) October 16, 2014[https://twitter.com/LSEplc/status/522788817250447360]

17.20 Global stocks are recovering on the comments from James Bullard that the Fed should be open to continue its QE on the back of low inflation expectations.

His comments come a day after his counterpart at the San Francisco Fed, John Williams, told Reuters[http://www.reuters.com/article/2014/10/14/us-usa-fed-williams-idUSKCN0I31Y720141014] that should inflation showing little sign of returning to the central bank's 2pc target, he too would be open to another round of asset purchases.

"If we really get a sustained, disinflationary forecast ... then I think moving back to additional asset purchases in a situation like that should be something we should seriously consider," said Mr Williams.

17.05 After a rollercoaster day, the FTSE 100 is closing 0.3 pc down, after regaining most of its daily losses on the news that the Fed could be willing to extend its bond-buying.

Influential fund manager Neil Woodford[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/personalfinance/investing/funds/10950615/Neil-Woodford-portfolio-top-10-my-10-favourite-shares.html] has said the bulk of the sell-off was likely to be over and, while investors were reassessing their economic forecasts, any comparison to the 2008 global crisis was inappropriate.

"(In 2008) there were major concerns about the banking system and whether they would open on a Monday. The crisis today is not about that at all," Woodford said in a video update to clients.

"My gut instinct is we are in the teeth of a pretty aggressive sell off but may be through the more acute phase."

16.55 German austerity measures are one of the concerns weighing down on investors right now. Growth in the euro-area's biggest economy has slowed in recent months, but the German government is pressing ahead with meeting its balance budget targets, even as the rest of the Continent is mired in falling prices and low demand.

Speaking to her parliament today, Angela Merkel restated that all the single currency's constituent members should abide by the EU's fiscal targets,

The crisis has not yet been permanently and sustainably overcome because the causes, regarding the set-up of the European economic and currency union and the situation of individual member states, haven't been eliminated," said Ms Merkel

"All - and I stress here once again - all member states must fully respect the reinforced rules of the stability and growth pact."

Into the green

16.35 Those comments from US central banker James Bullard about a potential extension of the Fed's QE have led the S&P500 in to positive territory for the first time today. The US index is now is up 0.5 pc up in late morning trading.

And along those lines, here's Ambrose Evans-Pritchard on why the world economy may need permanent quantitative easing. [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11165982/World-economy-so-damaged-it-may-need-permanent-QE.html]

16.30 Some more comments from ECB governing council member, Ewald Nowotny. He told an Austrian magazine, as reported by Reuters[http://uk.reuters.com/article/2014/10/16/uk-ecb-policy-idUKKCN0I51XK20141016], that the bank's asset purchases should focus on quality, rather than quantity, in a bid to boost the size of the central bank's balance sheet.

I am not in principle against ABS, but its quality is more important than the quantity.One should therefore not commit to a particular volume of ABS purchases from the outset."

ECB President Mario Draghi has pledged to return the bank's balance sheet to the size it reached in 2012, suggesting purchases worth at least a trillion euros.

16.10 St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank President James Bullard has said the central bank should consider delaying the end of its bond buying to halt the decline in inflation expectations

Speaking in an interview today with Bloomberg News, Mr Bullard said U.S. economic fundamentals remained strong and he blamed the market turmoil on downgrades in the outlook for Europe.

“Inflation expectations are declining in the U.S.,” he said. “That’s an important consideration for a central bank. And for that reason I think that a logical policy response at this juncture may be to delay the end of the QE.”

The comments have sparked a mini-relief rally with US stocks gaining back losses and Treasuries also clawing back gains.

16.00 Greek bonds yields have been soaring today. The news of a potential early election and the Greek government's insistence that it may no longer need financial help from the IMF has been spooking investors all day.

And Greece's 10 year bonds have now breached 9pc for the first time since the new year.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en">Greek 10-Year Yield climbs above 9% for first time since Jan17 as traders seek exit. #Greece[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Greece?src=hash]pic.twitter.com/vUkCG9a3R8[http://t.co/vUkCG9a3R8]

— Holger Zschaepitz (@Schuldensuehner) October 16, 2014[https://twitter.com/Schuldensuehner/status/522761190397992960]

Reasons for cheer

15.15 The markets don't seem to have made much of better than expected US industrial data (see 14.18), but could well be bouyed by some decent labour market numbers coming out of the States.

US jobless claims haved now dropped to a 14-year low, while manufacturing has also picked up for September. It's more evidence that weak global growth is not fully weighing down on the US economy, making an interest rate hike in early 2015 still a distinct possibility.

However, the turmoil of recent days has seen interest rates futures pointing to a rate hike at the tail end of 2015.

Caption competition

15.00 Knock yourselves out eveyone...

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-partner="tweetdeck">"Happy now?" http://t.co/ZA4lobiYYG[http://t.co/ZA4lobiYYG]

— Lorcan Roche Kelly (@LorcanRK) October 16, 2014[https://twitter.com/LorcanRK/status/522748544265232384]

“The manufacturing sector is still growing,” Brett Ryan, U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York, said before the report. “Order backlogs are high and they’ve been rising. That should support production over the next couple quarters.”

14.10 Meagre growth in the eurozone is one of the reasons we've seen a flight from risk this week. And there was no let up in the raft of bad economic data from the currency bloc today[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11166426/Eurozone-inflation-slumps-as-currency-bloc-faces-triple-dip-recession.html]. The latest inflation figures show no major improvement in price rises, with inflation growing at a paltry 0.3pc in September.

13.58

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en">Stock market performance so far this yr: UK (FTSE 100): -9.5%Germany (DAX): -11.7%France (CAC): -10.1%Italy (MIB): -6.3%US (S&P): +0.8%

— Ed Conway (@EdConwaySky) October 16, 2014[https://twitter.com/EdConwaySky/status/522732429342441472]

US stocks near correction territory

13.05 The S&P 500 is currently down 1.4pc today. Should the sell off continue, the benchmark index could be following the FTSE into 'correction' territory.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en">For the S&P 500, a fall to 1810 would be a 10% drop from Sept. highs, signifying the first textbook #correction[https://twitter.com/hashtag/correction?src=hash] in 3 yrs.

— Paul Vigna (@paulvigna) October 16, 2014[https://twitter.com/paulvigna/status/522714287228604416]

</br>On Tuesday, member of the Saudi royal family Prince Alwaleed warned that falling prices would prove "catastrophic" for the Kingdom[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/commodities/11162744/Saudi-Prince-Alwaleed-says-falling-oil-prices-catastrophic.html], after Brent had fallen to $87 a barrel.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en">WTI just crashed below $80. Early Opec meeting?

— Andrew Critchlow (@baldersdale) October 16, 2014[https://twitter.com/baldersdale/status/522706824257372161]

</br>11:50 There are plenty of reasons for investors to be jittery[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/personalfinance/investing/11166220/Six-reasons-why-stock-markets-are-tumbling.html] : the risk that Ebola could become a global crisis, political risk in Greece as the government heads to an early election and signs that economic recovery is faltering after a string of anaemic data from the US, persistent weakness in the eurozone and the threat of deflation. But Alastair George, an investment strategist at Edison, thinks the problem runs much deeper:

The regime of low interest rates, low growth, low volatility but high equity and credit valuations appears to have finally fractured and there is no easy fix. For equities in general valuations remain high and sales growth forecasts continues to decline - evidenced only yesterday by Wal-Mart’s profit warning. Therefore in our view this is a perfectly valid correction towards deteriorating economic fundamentals.

So far we see no buying opportunity but instead a long overdue regime shift to a more volatile market environment.

</br>11.47 A sure sign of investor panic. The European fear index, which measures volatility in the continent's stock markets, has spiked in the last few days.

</br>11:42 Tom Stevenson, investment director at Fidelity Personal Investing, in a column for the Telgraph[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/personalfinance/investing/shares/11165836/These-market-panics-are-the-price-we-pay-for-long-term-riches.html], says current markets are reminiscent of those in 2008, at the height of the eurozone debt crisis.

After two years of eerie calm, markets have come over all 2008 again. The promise from Mario Draghi, the head of the European Central Bank, to do 'whatever it takes' in June 2012 ushered in a Mogadon market in which prices drifted serenely higher. This month investors woke from their happy stupor."

</br>11:37 Greek bond yields have soared to 8.7pc, prompting some very Draghi-like language from the EU:

Twitter: Agence France-Presse - #BREAKING[https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23BREAKING] EU says ready to help Greece in 'whatever ways necessary'

</br>11:28 Goldman Sachs wonders whether markets are over-reacting.

Markets appear to be pricing a sharp downgrade to both US and global growth views and significantly lower inflation risk across the major economies than they were a few weeks ago.

Economic reality appears to have changed less. Global growth has been slowing, but the move has been gradual and there is little sign that it is accelerating. US momentum has softened a little too, but we expect growth to remain solidly above trend. At the same time, the drop in oil prices is as much a reflection of supply as demand factors.

</br>11:23 This chart might be one of the best indicators of global risk appetite. As investors flee to relative safety, yields on German Bunds have tumbled:

Things are looking ugly in Greece too:

Twitter: Holger Zschaepitz - #Greece[https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23Greece] get hammered by fin markets. Greek 10yr yield jumps by almost 100bps, 3 and 5yr bond yields rise above 7%. http://t.co/qKOK7SuJo3[http://t.co/qKOK7SuJo3]

</br>11:12 Good morning and welcome to our live coverage of today's tumultuous market. Despite opening higher, European bourses are now well into the red as traders fail to shake off concerns that economic recovery has faltered.

As Ben Martin, our market reporter, has noted, the FTSE 100 has now slid into correction territory[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/newsbysector/epic/ftse100/11166574/Markets-rebound-after-day-of-turmoil-in-global-markets.html] having fallen more than 10pc from its last peak.

Here is the current state of play:

FTSE 100: -1.7pc

Dax: -2pc

Cac: -3pc

Twitter: Ben Martin - FTSE 100 in an official correction, dead cat bounce did not last long this morning: http://t.co/w20I7N6Wyl[http://t.co/w20I7N6Wyl]

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141016eaag0050m


NEWS
Whistleblower nurse describes 'chaos' at US Ebola hospital
By Nick Allen Dallas
1018 words
17 October 2014
05:30 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Briana Aguirre claims she was given a hazmat suit with a large hole in it and waste from suspected Ebola patients was piled 'up to the ceiling' in corridors

The hospital at the centre of America’s Ebola outbreak admitted on Thursday that it had made mistakes and apologised, as a whistleblowing nurse described scenes of “chaos” there.

Thomas Duncan, 42, the first person to be diagnosed with the disease in the US, died at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital on Oct 8 and two nurses who treated him – Nina Pham and Amber Vinson – contracted the virus.

Speaking at a congressional hearing in Washington, Dr Daniel Varga, the chief clinical officer of Texas state health resources, said: “We did not correctly diagnose his symptoms as those of Ebola. We are deeply sorry. Despite our best intentions, and a highly skilled medical team, we made mistakes.”

The admission came as Briana Aguirre, a nurse, described scenes of “chaos” at the hospital, with staff having no idea how to tackle the virus. She said the hazmat suit she was issued had a large gap in the neck and that materials used to treat suspected Ebola patients were left festering in corridors for days.

She claimed that suspected Ebola patients were wheeled around the hospital without protection and that doctors were told it was acceptable to move between rooms without disinfecting.

Her claims came amid growing criticism that the US response to the virus has been mismanaged.

Some politicians called for the resignation of Dr Tom Frieden, the director of the Centres for Disease Control (CDC) and Prevention, and accused his organisation of “demonstrable failures”.

Others demanded that President Barack Obama restrict air travel from west Africa, where the disease has killed more than 4,500 people.

In a tearful television interview, Miss Aguirre said she feared for her job but believed that colleagues would be “proud” of her for speaking out.

She said: “I can no longer defend my hospital at all. I’m embarrassed for my hospital. I watched them violate basic principles of nursing care, of medical care.”

When Mr Duncan arrived in an ambulance he was put in an area with up to seven other patients and it took three hours to call the CDC, she said.

A nurse caring for him was looking after three other patients at the same time and the scene was “chaotic”.

Miss Aguirre said: “Our infectious disease department was contacted to ask 'What is our protocol?’ And their answer was, 'We don’t know’.

“There were no special precautions, no special gear. We did not know what to do with his lab specimens.”

When Miss Pham, a friend, later became ill, Miss Aguirre was given the task of treating her. She said the hazmat suit provided was woefully inadequate. Her mouth and nose were left exposed through a gap of several inches at the neck.

The nurse claimed she was told by hospital officials to try to close the gap with tape.

She said: “I threw a fit. I couldn’t believe in the second week of an Ebola crisis the only gear they were offering us allowed our necks to be uncovered.”

Meanwhile, waste from the treatment of suspected patients was placed in hallway bins, she claimed.

Miss Aguirre said: “There was no one to pick up the garbage for two days. It was literally piled to the ceiling. The garbage room was full.

“There were people going by without so much as gloves on, or having their feet covered, and walking into other clean areas.”

The Ebola virus can survive for several days in body fluids, such as blood, at room temperature.

Asked if she would want to be treated at her own hospital, the nurse said: “I would try anything and everything to refuse to go there to be treated. I would feel at risk by going there. If I don’t actually have Ebola, I may contract it there.”

She said preparations for treating Ebola had consisted of an “optional seminar”. She added: “It wasn’t even suggested we go. I don’t think any institution in the country is prepared for what to look for.”

The two infected nurses have been moved from Texas. Miss Pham has been taken to the US National Institutes of Health outside Washington, while Miss Vinson has been moved to Emory University Hospital in Atlanta.

The Texas hospital defended itself against some accusations by Miss Aguirre, and similar ones from the National Nurses United union.

It said: “The assertions do not reflect actual facts learned from the medical record and interactions with clinical caregivers. Our hospital followed the CDC guidelines and sought additional guidance and clarity.”

However, the CDC is itself under fire. It emerged that CDC officials gave Miss Vinson permission to board a commercial flight despite her having an elevated temperature, a possible symptom. She was diagnosed with Ebola the next day.

In addition it is now thought that Vinson may have been ill as early as Friday – three days before she was diagnosed.

Dr. Christopher Braden, a spokesman for the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said that the CDC may now include people who were on a flight the 29-year-old nurse took to Cleveland from Dallas on Friday in its investigation of possible contacts.

Officials were already attempting to track down the 132 people who were on the Frontier Airlines flight from Cleveland to Dallas on Monday. The crew has been put on paid leave and the plane has been quarantined and stripped. Three schools in Texas were also temporarily closed after it emerged that a small number of pupils had been on the same flight as Miss Vincent. .

"We had started to look at the possibility that she had symptoms going back as far as Saturday," Dr Braden said.

"But some more information that's come through just recently would say that we can't rule out the fact that she might have had the start of her illness on Friday."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141016eaag005h9


Ebola may be gruesome but it’s not the biggest threat to Africa
By Fraser Nelson
1327 words
17 October 2014
05:08 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Malaria has killed 70 times more people this year – even though it’s very easy to prevent

Mystery diseases inspire a special terror in the West. Buried in our psyche lies the idea that a new Black Death will one day appear, shattering the medical protection we have built over the years. Horror films are made about killer viruses sweeping Britain but even they look mild compared to some of the hysteria emanating from the Government. A few years ago, the Department of Health warned that another pandemic is “inevitable” and predicted up to 750,000 British deaths. “Socioeconomic disruption will be massive,” it concluded. We are, apparently, just waiting for the next big virus to strike.

Perhaps this explains the panicky reaction to Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/travelnews/11152303/Ebola-UK-why-screening-travellers-is-pointless.html] . It’s hardly a new disease, having emerged (and been defeated) several times before – but it has never been as big as it is now. It’s certainly gruesome, killing seven in 10 people it infects with symptoms including bleeding from the eyes and ears. There are 4,500 dead so far and there are fears that there could be 10,000 new infections a week by the end of the year. The US is talking about a $1 billion aid package for Africa, and Britain too is sending teams of doctors. And this is not entirely altruistic: we’re treating Ebola there, runs the subtext, to make sure it doesn’t come here.

All of this seems to confirm an old suspicion about Africa: that it is a continent of poverty and scourges, capable of incubating what might be the next big pandemic. In fact, the disease has affected just five of Africa’s 53 countries, and in two of them – Nigeria and Senegal – its progress seems to have been halted. While it is contagious (through bodily fluids, rather than by air) the largest district of Sierra Leone, Koinadugu, had (until yesterday) been able to say it is Ebola-free after observing basic border checks. The disease is spreading exponentially in certain places but Africa is not, yet, at its mercy.

A sense of proportion tends to be the first casualty of any new virus. It is not quite clear why the Department of Health thinks that the next pandemic will claim 750,000 British lives, given that this is three times the death toll inflicted by Spanish Flu a century ago. The last pandemic, the so-called Hong Kong flu of 1968, claimed 30,000 lives. While tragic, this figure is only slightly more than the official figure for the number of British pensioners who die of the cold each winter – a figure that is, shamefully, treated with a shrug. We have become rather good at guarding against mutant killer viruses, even if we still struggle to protect our elderly against the cold.

The most recent viruses to emerge have caused much panic and disruption, but proved far less deadly than (for example) measles. The worldwide death toll for the Sars virus was 770, and the H5N1 bird flu claimed 390 lives. These scares cost tens of billions of pounds of economic damage, due to the inevitable disruption associated with a worldwide scare. But the fatalities have not been as great as for conditions which are far less scientifically challenging – like drug addiction, heart disease or (in Britain) hospital-acquired infections like C-Difficile.

The panic in the United States – much of it coming from Barack Obama’s opponents – is becoming a case study in misplaced anger. Denounced as “President Ebola” in some sections of the American press, he is faulted for failing to set up an airport test that could have intercepted the Ebola victim being blamed for bringing the virus to the country. No safety net can be so tight as to catch everyone. But more to the point, where is the anger about the 40,000 Americans who die each year from preventable conditions like whooping cough and measles?

Even the concern about Africa seems to be at odds with the threats facing the continent. Since Ebola emerged seven months ago it has claimed thousands of lives in Africa, which certainly makes it deadlier than Sars or Avian Flu. But over these same seven months, 40 times as many people will have died from basic hunger and 70 times as many Africans will have been killed by malaria[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/7881054/Malaria-QandA-for-travellers.html?+] – both basic, avoidable conditions that have dogged mankind from the beginning of time. So where is the anger about this?

If anything, Africans dying from malaria should cause far outrage than Ebola – given that we know perfectly well how to overcome malaria. Basic tools like insecticides, mosquito nets and sanitation can eradicate the disease. With enough resources, malaria can be snuffed out – as was proved in Sri Lanka when a US-led campaign brought the annual death toll down from 92,000 to just 17. And this was in back in 1963, when the tools available to fight malaria were far harder to come by. Various agencies, like the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, have made striking progress in recent years, but malaria remains a bigger killer now then Ebola is ever likely to be.

The root problem is a far more basic one: poverty. The countries now battling Ebola – Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia – are among the poorest in the world with a pitiful health infrastructure. Foreign aid can help if it encourages a basic health service. But sending armies of aid workers can undermine a country’s ability to set up a normal health service – if the work is being done by outsiders, who are working on specific projects. Jim Yong Kim, a doctor who now runs the World Bank, has said that Ebola would have been contained if it broke out in Rwanda because it used donor money to build a proper health system after its genocide.

One of the greatest stories of the last decade is the extraordinary economic growth of sub-Saharan Africa – and how this is quickly translating into poverty reduction, cutting death rates from its everyday diseases. Child mortality is falling at the fastest rate in history. Malaria, too, is in fast decline as ordinary Africans can afford protection, rather than wait to have it handed out by an aid agency. Deaths from measles are down by 80 per cent over the last 10 years. HIV infections, so long the scourge of Africa, are down by a third over the same period. The United Nations envisages the epidemic being vanquished by the end of the next decade, which would be a monumental achievement.

Only this week, it emerged that hunger in Africa has fallen by a quarter over the past 25 years – an incredible achievement which will have saved millions upon millions of lives. Better-fed bodies can better fight disease; a mother is a hundred times more likely to die in childbirth in a poor country than she is a rich one. Steadily, Africans are closing the gap with the rich world. Blessed with the oil and minerals that fetch such a high price in world markets, the continent is becoming richer, and converting this into prosperity. The result is a golden age of poverty reduction.

Not all of the continent is growing at the same pace and in the same way, which explains why the Ebola has moved so quickly in countries which have nothing resembling a decent healthcare system. But their story is not Africa’s story. The continent is making more progress against its the main killers than at any point time in modern history, so it can realistically look forward not just for to end of Aids, but to end of poverty as we know it today. The Ebola tragedy is a setback in a greater war against disease and poverty – but it is a war which Africans are steadily winning.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141017eaah000ul


NEWS
'I love you guys' says Ebola-stricken nurse Nina Pham from hospital bed
By Nick Allen Dallas
346 words
17 October 2014
03:59 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A video is released of Ebola victim Nina Pham, 26, looking upbeat in isolation and shedding “happy tears”

A nurse who contracted Ebola at a Dallas hospital has been filmed sitting up in her hospital bed.

Nina Pham, 26, smiled and seemed upbeat as she was filmed talking to her doctor at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital.

Shortly after the 56-second video was recorded she was moved to the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland for further treatment.

In the video she began crying as she addressed her medical colleagues. She told the camera “I love you guys” and added: “Come to Maryland, everybody.”

Miss Pham was dressed in a green smock and was in an ordinary bed in a hospital room with a water jug next to her.

She caught Ebola while treating the first person to be diagnosed with the disease in the US, Thomas Eric Duncan, 42, who died on Oct 8.

In the video Dr Gary Weinstein stood over her bed wearing full protective clothing, He told her: “Thanks for getting well. Thanks for being part of the voluntary team to take care of our first patient. It means a lot. This has been a huge effort by all of you guys. We’re really proud of you. We love you Nina.”

As Miss Pham began crying another doctor in protective clothing handed her a tissue. Dr Weinstein said: “Happy tears are OK.”

When the nurse was taken out of the Dallas hospital in an ambulance dozens of nurses cheered. She later boarded a private jet at Dallas Love Field airport.

A doctor at the hospital told local television: “It was a difficult decision to transfer Nina, a member of our own family, and someone who is greatly loved and respected.”

The Dallas hospital has been accused of bungling the first cases of Ebola in America.

But Miss Pham said: “I appreciate everything that my co-workers have done to care for me.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141017eaah000gp


NEWS
Bridal store closes after visit from Ebola patient
By Nick Allen Dallas
406 words
17 October 2014
03:37 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Health officials say patient Amber Vinson could have been infectious days earlier than previously thought, increasing the number of people she could have had contact with

US Ebola-stricken nurse: 'I love you guys'

A bridal store closed and members of a wedding party put themselves into voluntary quarantine after doctors said Ebola patient Amber Vinson could have been infectious earlier than previously thought.

It emerged that Miss Vinson, 29, a nurse who treated the first person to die from the disease in the US, could have been showing symptoms of the virus on Friday, the day she left Dallas on a flight for Cleveland.

In Cleveland she visited Coming Attractions Bridal and Formal on Saturday to choose bridesmaid dresses for her forthcoming wedding.

By the time she flew back to Dallas on Monday Miss Vinson had a slight fever, and was diagnosed with Ebola the following day.

Anna Younker, owner of the bridal shop, was told by health officials to disinfect it.

She said Miss Vinson had seemed a "very intelligent lady" and "We had great conversation. Nice bridal party. All her friends were nice."

But she told CNN: "How did you (Miss Vinson) not think this through? You know, if you're supposed to be quarantined, you're at a hospital where the Ebola is alive, what made you think it's OK to get on a plane?" Local resident Jesse Lewis who arrived at the store to find a dress told the Cleveland Plain Dealer: "Concerned? I have two granddaughters. Ebola is not something you play around with. On the Internet I watched the computerised spread and how fast it covers the world. I'm scared to death."

Health officials told people who visited the bridal shop between noon and 3.30pm on Saturday to contact them.

Dr Christopher Braden, a spokesman for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Ohio, said Miss Vinson could have been sick with Ebola before she even arrived in Cleveland, increasing the number of people she could have had contact with.

He said: "We had started to look at the possibility that she had symptoms going back as far as Saturday.

"But some more information that's come through just recently would say that we can't rule out the fact that she might have had the start of her illness on Friday."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141017eaah00106


NEWS
Watch: US Ebola nurse Nina Pham speaks from hospital bed
By Telegraph Video
132 words
17 October 2014
03:38 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Footage shows Nina Pham, who contracted Ebola whilse treating victim Thomas Eric Duncan, crying "happy tears" from her hospital bed

An American[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/] nurse who contracted Ebola at a Dallas hospital has spoken on camera in her hospital bed.

Speaking at the Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital , Nina Pham, 26, said: "I love you guys....come to Maryland, everybody.”

She began crying as she addressed her medical colleagues but still seemed upbeat.

Ms Pham caught Ebola while treating the first person to be diagnosed with the disease in the US, Thomas Eric Duncan, 42, who died on October 8.

After the short video was made, she was moved to the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland for further treatment.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141017eaah0015q


Features
Sandwich Woman
Allison Pearson
1491 words
17 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
33
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
This week, the beleaguered Kate Reddy, Allison Pearson's much–loved character, finds herself lying about her age after a headhunter pooh–poohs her chances of ever finding a job

7.07am

"Dear God. Listen to this, Kate." Richard looks up from the paper, squinting in the wintry light. Since his mid–life crisis, my husband has started reading The Guardian. Your average menopausal male can be relied upon to purchase a leather jacket and the services of 6ft Russian blondes. Mine buys a book called Mindfulness: A Practical Guide to Accessing the Calmer, Kinder You. He decides to retrain as a counsellor and starts fretting about the health and safety deficiencies in Bolivian tin mines. It's hideous. I'd rather he got a Harley–Davidson.

"It says here: 'Hackers access 100,000 Snapchat photos and prepare to leak them, including under–age nude pics.' Darling, do the kids have this Snapchat thing?" "Erm, drner."

"Lucky we know Emily isn't going to be posting pictures of her genitals for public consumption, but lots of parents haven't got a clue what their kids are up to on social media."

"Ingggmr."

"We have those parental controls on their stuff, don't we?"

"Course we do. Fancy a bacon butty?"

"I won't say no if you're offering."

Over 20 years together, the bacon sandwich has never failed me as a distraction for Richard. If he ever goes vegetarian – as looks increasingly likely, judging by the woven bracelet he now wears around his wrist – our marriage is doomed. Anyway, I'm not lying to Rich, not exactly. The kids do have parental controls on their iPads and phones. What I don't tell him is that, since the Snapchat of Emily's bare bottom went viral, I freaked out and called up Dave the computer genius. Dave told me how to get into the history on Em's computer. Scrolled down and found she had used MY CREDIT CARD to download "How to use a proxy to bypass parental control filters". What can you do? It's like I'm a Stone Age person living with Steve Jobs.

7.17am

"We are not going to find it any faster if you shout at me like that, young man. EXCUSE ME, what did you call me?"

Ebola is spreading across the globe, we are either going to be killed by plague or bearded nutters, but what really matters right now is that Ben's left football boot is missing. And this is my fault. Because, in my given role as Mother of Teenagers I'd Cheerfully Murder, everything is now my fault, even things I have never seen nor heard of or have simply forgotten – which, let's face it, is increasingly likely. Eighteen months into the peri–menopause and the great library of my mind is reduced to one overdue Barbara Cartland.

Is that why I started lying about my age? Look, it wasn't vanity, it was self–preservation. When I knew I needed some extra work to pay the mortgage – shortly after my husband decided he was the Dalai Lama – I got in touch with a London headhunter who was anxious to fill his female quota, as laid down by the Society of Investment Trusts. The sort of wellconnected chap who can put a word in the right hairy ear and get you a non–executive directorship. I figured if I had a couple of those under my belt I could still look after Mum and the kids and keep an eye on Richard's parents. On paper, everything looked great. Hell, I could do two non–execs in my sleep! And then I met Gerald Kerslaw.

Office in one of those monumental, wedding–cake houses in Holland Park. Front steps felt like scaling the White Cliffs of Dover.

Hadn't worn decent shoes for a while – amazing how quickly you lose the ability to walk in heels. I felt like Bambi on cobblestones. Amazing, too, how fast all the confidence you built up over a career ebbs away. Years of knowledge brushed aside in minutes.

"So, Mrs Reddy, you've been out of the City for how long? Seven years?"

"Six. But I've taken on a lot of responsibilities since then. Kept up my skillset, I read the FT every day and…" "I see."

Kerslaw was holding my CV at a distance as if it had a bad smell. Ex–Army, helmet of silver hair; a small man whose shiny face bore the stretched look of someone who had always wanted to be three inches taller. The pinstripes on his jacket were a fraction too wide; it was the kind of suit only worn by Tory MPs after they've appeared in a Sunday tabloid.

"Treasurer of the PCC?" he asked, raising one eyebrow.

"Yes, that's the parochial church council in our village. Books were a mess, but it was quite hard to persuade the vicar to trust me to manage their 1,900 quid. I mean, I'd been used to running a £400 million fund so it was quite funny really and…"

"I see. Now, moving on to your time as chairman of the governors at Beckles (is it?) Community College. Of what relevance might that be, Mrs Reddy?"

"Kate. Please call me Kate. Well, the school was failing, about to go into special measures actually, and it took a huge amount of work to turn it around. I had to change the management structure, which was a diplomatic nightmare. You can't believe school politics, seriously, and there was all the legislation to adhere to and the inspection reports. So much red tape. I instigated a merger with another school so we'd have the money to invest in frontline staff and bring down classroom sizes. It made Mergers and Acquisitions look like the Teletubbies."

"I see," said Kerslaw, not an atom of a smile on his face. "And you were not working full–time because your mother was unwell, I believe?"

"Yes, Mum – my mother – had a heart attack, but she's much better now. I'd just like to say, Mr Kerslaw, that Beckles Community College is one of the fastest–improving schools in the country, and we've got a terrific new head who…"

"Quite. So what I need to ask you is: if one of your children were to be ill when a board meeting was scheduled, what would you do? It's vital that, as a non–exec, you would have time to prepare for the meetings and, of course, attendance is compulsory."

I don't know how long I sat there staring at him. Seconds? Minutes? I can't promise that my jaw wasn't resting on the floor. Did I really have to dignify that question with an answer? It seems I did. So I told the headhunter prat with his tryingtoo–hard red silk jacket lining that, when I was a fund manager, my children had occasionally been ill and I had always arranged back–up care.

"You see," said Kerslaw, steepling his fingers like an archdeacon in a Trollope novel, "our problem is that, while you undoubtedly had a very impressive track record in the City, there is simply nothing you have done in the six years since you left Edwin Morgan Forster which would be of any interest to my clients. And then there is the question of your age. Late forties and, I'm afraid, fast approaching the cohort parameter beyond which…"

"Fifty's the new 35," I croaked. My mouth was dry. Don't cry, Kate. Let's just get out of here, please don't cry and make a scene. Men hate scenes, this one especially, he's not worth it.

Back on the pavement, I took first a deep breath and then a decision. Henceforth, Kate Reddy would not be 49 and three quarters; Adrian Mole in Jimmy Choos, and a total irrelevance. She would be 42: the answer to life, the universe and everything. If Joan Collins could knock 20 years off her age to secure a part in Dynasty, I could sure as hell knock seven off mine to get a job in financial services and keep my own dynasty going.

From now on, against all my best instincts, and trying not to imagine what my mother would say, I shall become a liar.

... Next time

Kate invents a CV for an ageist jobs market

Comment

Have your say on the return of Sandwich Woman at telegraph.co.uk/comment/ columnists/ allison–pearson/ sandwich–woman

Online

Email Allison allison.pearson@telegraph.co.uk Follow Allison on Twitter @allisonpearson

Catch upon last week's chapter at telegraph.co.uk/comment/ columnists/ allison–pearson/sandwich–woman

" On paper, everything looked great. Hell, I could do two non–execs in my sleep!

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141017eaah00087


News
Health chiefs increase efforts to aid 15 African countries
Jessica Winch
319 words
17 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
23
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
THE World Health Organisation is increasing its efforts to help 15 African countries defend themselves against the spread of the Ebola virus.

Ivory Coast and Mali are at greatest risk of being affected by the epidemic, Isabelle Nuttall, the WHO's health security response chief, said yesterday. She added that the organisation would send teams to the countries this weekend to ensure there was an "adequate" response plan if a case occurred.

The virus is known to have killed almost 4,500 people in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea this year.

The WHO says there have been 9,000 recorded cases in west Africa and a similar number unrecorded.

Meanwhile in France, a nurse who treated the country's first Ebola patient was taken to a military hospital near Paris yesterday with a "suspect fever", a source close to the case said. According to several sources who did not reveal their names, she was at the same hospital that treated a French nurse who contracted the virus in Liberia when working for Médécins Sans Frontières (MSF), who has since recovered.

Three people with fever were being tested in Spain for the virus, including one who arrived on an Air France jet carrying 163 passengers that was isolated at Madrid's airport as a precaution. The man, who had travelled from Nigeria, was taken by ambulance with a driver wearing full protective gear to Madrid's Carlos III hospital. The other passengers were allowed to disembark and the plane was taken to a special area to be disinfected.

Another person with a fever who came into contact with the infected Spanish nursing assistant Teresa Romero was sent to the same hospital for testing, the health ministry said, and a missionary was being transported for testing after he came down with a fever after returning to Spain from Liberia.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141017eaah0006q


News
Fighting the contagious virus with a clipboard
Nick Allen ; Andrew Marszal
261 words
17 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
23
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
It is an image that has come to define America's lacklustre response to tackling Ebola.

As a patient is wheeled to a plane on a stretcher, an official is seen hovering attentively over her protected by nothing more than his clipboard and a pair of sunglasses. Dressed casually in a shirt and trousers, he seems eager to help the four other people covered head to toe in hazmat suits and handles rubbish bags and a canister. He even gets on to the plane with the patient. After television footage of the incident was broadcast the mystery man has become known across America as "clipboard guy". He has been lampooned as a "fool" and "idiot" on social media.

The "clipboard guy" has since been confirmed to be a supervisor for Phoenix Air Group, the private airline moving patient Amber Vinson from Love Field airport in Dallas to Emory University Hospital in Atlanta.

The company, which did not identify its employee, said he was following protocol and was perfectly safe. His job was to tell the people in hazmat suits where to go. A spokesman said: "Our medical professionals in the biohazard suits have limited vision and mobility and it is the protocol supervisor's job to watch each person carefully, and give them verbal directions to ensure no close contact protocols are violated. There is absolutely no problem with this and, in fact, it ensures an even higher level of safety for all involved."

Nick Allen and Andrew Marszal

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141017eaah0006o


News
PM to meet Putin for first time since MH17 shot down
Georgia Graham
159 words
17 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
8
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
DAVID CAMERON is to meet Vladimir Putin for the first time since a passenger plane was shot down over Ukraine, killing 298 people including nine Britons. The Prime Minister and the Russian President will both attend the Asia–Europe Meeting in Italy today.

In July, Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 was shot down over eastern Ukraine, with Western intelligence agencies convinced pro–Russian rebels were responsible.

Western leaders including Francois Hollande, the French president, Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, and Matteo Renzi, the Italian prime minister, will also attend the summit, as will Petro Poroshenko, the Ukrainian president.

The Prime Minister's deputy official spokesman said: "His main message will be that there needs to be more progress to implement the Minsk agreement. Stop flow of weapons across the border." Mr Cameron may also use the Milan summit to discuss the threat of the Ebola virus.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141017eaah0006b


Features
Toad virus could jump species barrier
189 words
17 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
42
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
NATURE NOTES

Emerging viruses are in danger of wiping out Britain's toads, newts and other amphibians and reptiles.

The population of the common frog has already declined after being infected by a Ranavirus from the Iridoviridae group, but scientists fear it can now jump species.

The study by UCL, the Zoological Society of London, Queen Mary University of London and the National Museum of Natural Science in Madrid has shown a member of the group — Common Midwife Toad Virus or CMTV — has been found to cause severe disease and mass deaths in many amphibian species, including frogs and salamanders, in the mountainous areas of northern Spain.

Worst affected were populations of the common midwife toad, common toad and alpine newt.

Scientists warned that the outbreak has wider significance as viruses can cross the species barrier from mammals and animals. Ebola, for instance, jumped from bats and other wild animals to humans.

Dr Stephen Price, of University College London's Genetics Institute, said: "It's important to understand the origins and movement of these viruses to try to limit further amphibian declines."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141017eaah0005y


Features
HERE WE GO ALL OVER AGAIN...
Jeremy Warner
1378 words
17 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
29
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
As Europe teeters on the brink of another financial meltdown, Jeremy Warner explains why October is the time for storms

For stock markets, October – with its fading light, silent leaf fall and first winter chills – is historically the cruellest month. This year is proving no exception. The crashes of 1929, 1987, 2001 and 2008 were all focused on this portentous month. And amid signs of another perfect storm of negatives brewing in the world economy, stocks are again plummeting.

Since the beginning of September, the FTSE 100 has fallen by more than 10 per cent, with much of the drop concentrated in the last week – a level of deterioration that satisfies the official definition of a fully blown stock market correction.

For many European bourses, it has been a great deal worse. Greece is already back in classic bear market territory – scarcely believable so soon after the last one. Not since the peak of the Eurozone crisis in 2011–12 have we seen such manifest panic, and before then, the collapse of Lehman Brothers, six years ago. Nor is it just equities; bond yields too are back at levels that indicate a clear and present danger of deflation and economic depression.

Normally there is a trigger event for such meltdowns, but unless it be the Ebola outbreak in west Africa, this time it's not entirely clear what. Rather, there has been a steady build–up of worry, culminating in an emerging consensus at last week's meeting of the International Monetary Fund in Washington that the global recovery is again in danger of stalling.

For some economies, still struggling to climb back to pre–crisis levels of output, prospects are again looking truly desperate. It is as if the last recession never really ended at all, lending weight to those who argue that advanced economies have succumbed to "secular stagnation", a semi–permanent state of impaired demand that is unresponsive to even the extreme levels of monetary stimulus of the past several years. Indeed, judged in terms of UK stock market performance, we appear trapped in a 15–year long cycle of decline. The FTSE 100 has never regained its turn–of–the–century peak.

The epicentre of alarm this time is again Europe, where both economic and political risks have climbed steeply in recent weeks. With Europe's southern economies gripped by conditions reminiscent of the Great Depression in the Thirties, Italy's Five Star protest movement – in some respects, the equivalent of the UK Independence Party – has promised a referendum on membership of the euro. In Greece, the ultra–Left Syriza has committed to repudiating virtually all aspects of the eurozone austerity programme, even though the country has little chance of regaining access to international debt markets once outside it.

Yet again, the fiscal, monetary and political straitjacket that holds the single currency together is in danger of blowing apart. Just to get this in perspective, it is not yet 2012 in redux, with the explosion in risk premiums that took place back then. Even so, worries about the sustainability of European Monetary Union are back with a vengeance.

Meanwhile, an extraordinarily low inflation reading for September has reinforced fears that the eurozone is on the slippery slope to outright deflation, a condition that if it became established would seem to condemn Europe to a repeat of Japan's 20–year slump and would further steepen the challenge of getting on top of mountainous public debts. With falling prices come delayed spending and investment decisions, and a steady ratcheting up of existing debt burdens. In such circumstances, eventual default by heavily indebted nations becomes virtually inevitable. It is not a disease any continent would want to fall victim to.

A tanking oil price, which in itself is partly a response to fast abating global demand, has only further increased the chances of Europe succumbing to the illness, even though, by putting more money in people's pockets, it should in time prove helpful to the global economy.

Not that the plunging oil price is all about weaker demand. Normally, such pressures would be countered by cuts to production from Opec's big swing nation, Saudi Arabia. This time around, the Saudis have decided not to play ball, in apparent determination to inflict damage on other, highercost producers – Iran, Russia, the emerging Middle Eastern Caliphate and possibly even the US, whose shale revolution is endangered by low energy prices. These geopolitical aspects of the price correction have further added to anxieties in financial markets.

In any case, the European Central Bank's favourite gauge of inflationary expectations, the five–year forward swap rate, is currently at a record low. Europe's apparent inability to mount a credible response to deflationary threats is again centre stage. Hemmed in by German intransigence and the apparent impediment of European treaties, the ECB has so far failed to apply the monetary therapy of quantitative easing, despite its evident success in Britain and the US. The working assumption in markets is that eventually it will; whether it acts in time, however, remains very much open to question.

As if another leg in the eurozone crisis wasn't bad enough, there are also signs of a pronounced slowdown elsewhere in the world, with China caught between a rock and a hard place – the imperative of growth at all costs knocking up against evident concern in the Communist Party elite about repeating the economic mistakes of the West. Attempts to dampen the credit–fuelled boom of the post–crisis era may have slowed Chinese growth to below 7 per cent, a level that would be regarded as stellar by Western standards, but which for China is close to disastrous.

This slowdown has in turn inflicted damage on the big export nations of Germany and Japan, and those emerging market economies heavily reliant on the commodities boom of recent years, such as Brazil. Even the US shows early signs of stumbling. Such is the degree of concern that two members of the Federal Reserve's Open Markets Committee have broken ranks to express reservations about ending asset purchases, as scheduled this month, and suggested that the Fed might be forced to consider a fourth round of them – so–called QE4. Neither of them are noted "doves".

Every time the Fed says QE is about to end, the markets react with horror, forcing policymakers to backtrack. It is as if the world economy can never get off the adrenalin fix of central bank moneyprinting. Market expectations of the first US interest rate rise have meanwhile been pushed dramatically back from the middle of next year to well into 2016.

Overlaying it all is an even more concerning narrative – that evident fault lines exposed by the financial crisis, from dysfunctional monetary union in Europe, to growing imbalances between surplus and deficit nations, and increasing indebtedness almost everywhere, have been left festering and largely unaddressed. Worse, that attempts to smooth the post–crisis adjustment with fiscal and monetary stimulus have succeeded only in delaying the reckoning, or even adding to it.

On top of all this comes anxiety about the impact of Ebola. We know from less lethal diseases that international pandemics induce a high degree of behavioural aversion, with profoundly negative consequences for the global economy.

Set against this bleak international backdrop, the British economy looks like a beacon of sound governance and policy, hard though it sometimes is to believe for those of us who observe these things at close quarters.

Unemployment is back virtually to pre–crisis levels, labour participation is at its best since 2005 and job vacancies are close to an all–time high. Even long–elusive real–wage growth seems to be returning, at least in the private sector. These gains have been hard won, yet they are again in danger of derailment by external developments.

Last week, Christine Lagarde, managing director of the IMF, said that another global recession was avoidable, but only if surplus and deficit nations did the right things. Is there any likelihood of them doing so? Regrettably little.

" As if the eurozone crisis wasn't bad enough, there are signs of a slowdown elsewhere in the world

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141017eaah00055


Business
London Mining falls into s administration
Ashley Armstrong
399 words
17 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
4
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
EBOLA–HIT London Mining has toppled into administration after failing to find a buyer for the business as it struggled with debts following a slump in iron ore prices.

The company's board had been working with Goldman Sachs and Standard Chartered to try to find a strategic buyer to plug a funding gap, which meant that it was running out of money to service its only operating iron ore mine.

The collapse comes just a week after London Mining's chief executive, Graeme Hossie, warned investors that there was little to no value left in the equity of the shares. Shares of the company closed down to 4.5p before they were suspended, a 95pc fall from where they were a year ago.

Administrators at PwC took control of the company yesterday and are searching for a buyer for London Mining's Marampa mine, which employs close to 1,400 people in Sierra Leone and has iron ore reserves expected to support production for the next 40 years.

It is understood that Indian steel conglomerate Jindal, which had been in discussions about taking over the company, is interested in buying the mine. Frank Timis, African Minerals' chairman, is also understood to be interested in Marampa. Both know the mine well and Jindal already takes production from Marampa, meaning that it could acquire the mine to streamline its business.

"The collapse in iron ore prices and the resulting impacts on this business have been very dramatic. Our focus is to ensure that a buyer is found for the Marampa Mine operations given it is such an important part of the Sierra Leone economy" Russell Downs, joint administrator and partner at PwC, said.

London Mining has grappled with plummeting price of iron ore which is sitting at its lowest level since 2009. The group was also hit by a spat with commodities giant Glencore over the pricing of an iron ore supply contract, which is said to have put a squeeze on its short–term cash position.

The Ebola outbreak, which has sparked a crisis in Sierra Leone, has also piled pressure on the group, which has already chartered flights to move its "non–essential" staff out of the country.

4.5p The price of shares in London Mining before they were suspended, which represents a 95pc fall since last year

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141017eaah0002c


Business
Decline of crude oil price sends investors barrelling out of energy firms
Ben Martin
846 words
17 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
7
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Market report

WITH the price of oil continuing to come under pressure, investors were busy offloading shares in those companies likely to be hardest hit by the recent slump in crude.

EnQuest fell 4.6p, or 6pc, to a record low of 72.7p and Afren lost 5.05p – 5.1pc – to a near three–year low of 93¼p on growing concern that they are threatened by the drop in oil prices.

The slide in oil shares "feels increasingly indiscriminate", analysts at UBS told clients, even though some companies, such as Cairn Energy, down a modest 0.6p at 155p, are "well–prepared" for the decline in prices. The drop in the commodity is a much greater challenge for EnQuest and Afren, they said.

"As a high cost North Sea producer EnQuest has high operational gearing to the oil price," the analysts advised investors, adding that the covenant on its $1.7bn (£1.06bn) revolving credit facility "looks under pressure" in 2015 with oil at between $80 and $90 a barrel.

Afren could also be hit, they warned, and "either new funding or lower capex could be required".

Investors in Afren have already seen the value of their shareholdings plummet after the group uncovered unauthorised payments, which led this week to the dismissal of swathes of management, including the chief executive.

One catalyst for the shares could be a bid. Rival Nigerian explorer South Atlantic Petroleum (SAPetro) has been steadily building a stake in Afren this month and some have speculated it could be a suitor for the FTSE 250 company. Indeed, SAPetro yesterday disclosed that it had lifted its Afren holding to 6.68pc.

The decline in crude, which saw Brent dip below $83 a barrel, continued to weigh on others in the sector. Tullow Oil lost 10.3p to 483.9p and Royal Dutch Shell's B share slid 38½p to £21.60.

Small–capper Bowleven slumped as much as 12.6pc before closing down ¾p, or 2.7pc, at 27p, its fifth straight session of declines. Traders said the intraday fall was exacerbated by margins calls, which were also thought to have yesterday hit a number of the smaller stocks that private investors have focused on in recent months.

More broadly, it was another volatile day for the stock market. Having dived 2.8pc on Wednesday, the FTSE 100 rallied as much in 1.2pc in early trade only to succumb to the wider sell–off once again. At its worst, the index was down 2.2pc, with worries about global growth and the potential resurgence of the eurozone's debt crisis weighing on sentiment.

But suggestions from a US Federal Reserve official that the central bank should consider delaying the end of its quantitative easing programme spurred a late rally and the FTSE closed down just 15.73 points, or 0.3pc, at 6,195.91.

International Airlines Group, which is helped by the falling oil price as it leads to lower fuel costs, recorded the single biggest gain in the FTSE 100, up 14.9p at 343p.

The shares rose after traders picked up on reassuring comments from boss Willie Walsh, who said that the spread of the Ebola virus had not hurt bookings.

Earnings updates spurred demand for some shares. Distribution group Bunzl was the second best–performing blue chip, up 65p at £15.84 after pleasing with a 6pc rise in underlying quarterly revenues.

Similarly, third quarter numbers from bwin.party digital entertainment sent shares in the online gambling business 5½p higher to 88.1p.

Ashtead, the equipment rental group that generates most of its revenues in the United States, added 30p to 923p following better than expected earnings from American peer United Rentals.

Broker research ensured there were buyers for other shares. Greencore, the food manufacturer, advanced 7½p to 237.6p after analysts at Berenberg started their coverage of the stock with "buy" advice and a target of 310p.

Investors have overlooked the growth opportunities in the US for Greencore's food–to–go business, which includes sandwiches and wraps, they said.

Aveva, meanwhile, was up 30p to £14.02, helped by analysts at Jefferies, who reminded investors that the engineering software group, which sounded a profit warning last month, could be taken over.

"It would be easy to forget the core attributes of Aveva amidst the turmoil," they said, arguing that its products and customer base make "it a highly credible takeover target at these valuation levels".

Marks & Spencer rose 15.8p to 405½p, pushed higher by analysts at Morgan Stanley, who told clients the shares were "worth another look". The rise in M&S shares was also accompanied by vague bid chatter.

For a second day, Shire was the heaviest blue–chip faller, down 294p, or 7.3pc, at £37.18 after US group AbbVie moved to abandon its planned acquisition of the drug maker by recommending that its shareholders vote against the deal.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141017eaah00023


Business
Violent swings push FTSE 100 to the edge
Ben Martin
288 words
17 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
1
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
GLOBAL stock markets suffered another day of tumultuous trading that sent London's FTSE 100 to the brink of a correction.

Britain's benchmark index, which dropped 2.8pc a day earlier, swung violently, rising as much as 1.2pc only to fall and trade down 2.2pc. The index then rallied to close a modest 0.3pc lower at 6,195.91.

The rebound came after James Bullard, the head of the St Louis Federal Reserve, said the US central bank could delay the end of quantitative easing. The decline meant the FTSE 100 closed 9.9pc beneath its peak for the year, just shy of the 10pc fall marking a technical correction.

The index's gyrations were mirrored by Wall Street, where the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged more than 200 points in early trade before paring its losses. The Fed's stimulus measures have been instrumental in suppressing volatility and pushing up share prices. As a result, investors have until recently been able to shrug off weak economic data, the falling oil price, rising geopolitical tensions and the spread of Ebola.

"You can use any one or a combination of those headwinds to blame for the current market weakness," said Guy Ellison, head of equity research at Investec Wealth & Investment. "I think a lot of it comes down to the fact we've had a correction coming."

Meanwhile, European stock markets were rattled by growing fears that the Syriza party, which opposes bailouts, may come to power in Greece next year. There is also concern that the government's plan to exit its rescue programme early could leave Greece unable to fund itself.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141017eaah0001s


Business
You can join up the dots but still fail to find global economic answers
Andrew Critehlmv
569 words
17 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
2
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Business Comment

Clues to the current market turmoil can be found in the Scottish referendum, the Ebola outbreak and a set of 17 dots. The last of these are the "dots diagrams" that the US Federal Reserve uses to illustrate where its officials think interest rates will be in the future. They provide a glimpse inside the decision–making process of the main monetary control room in the world. And the picture that emerges is, frankly, terrifying.

Fed officials currently believe that US interest rates at the end of next year could be anywhere between 0pc and 3pc.

Opinions diverge even more for the end of 2016; the officials think that rates could be anywhere between 0.25pc and 4.25pc.

In other words, Fed officials have almost no clue at all where interest rates for the world's largest economy will be in 15 months' time. And these are the people who are supposed to be setting them. If they're confused, what hope do the rest of us have?

For several months now the Federal Reserve has been winding down its bond–buying programme and hinting that it will raise rates at some point next year. But, after less than two days of market turbulence (and despite the fact that the Fed says it doesn't target the markets), St Louis Federal Reserve Bank president James Bullard yesterday said the Fed should consider prolonging QE.

Are these officials clueless? No. But the complexity of the issues they face is bordering on the overwhelming.

The eurozone looks like it is stuttering again and the market is worried that policymakers either can't or won't do anything about it.

The world is still massively over–leveraged. The global debt to GDP ratio hit a new record high of 215pc at the end of last year, up from around 200pc when the financial crisis hit. While one wouldn't want to fall for the "household fallacy" of assuming all debt is bad, it is undoubtedly true that heavily indebted countries, like many of those in the eurozone, will find it increasingly hard to meet debt payment as inflation creeps ever lower.

When Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank, said in 2012 that he would do "whatever it takes" to save the euro, he had the implicit backing of Germany. Now the mood music has changed. Indeed, Mr Draghi's statement is currently being tested in the European Union's highest court.

If the eurozone can't be persuaded to save itself (and the rest of the global economy along with it), the crisis of democracy and representation in the developed world, which was illustrated by the Scottish referendum, will worsen. Citizens feel that their elected representatives are powerless against the forces of globalisation. They may have a point.

The spread of Ebola, the rise of Islamic State and the world's inability to tackle the threat of climate change all point to a failure of global co–ordination. People are asking themselves whether, if governance can't be managed on a global scale, it might not be better to push for more localised power.

Huge global problems require global solutions. But there is a scary possibility, even when you join up all the dots, that these simply don't exist.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141017eaah00013


Business
Get your act together to save planet, Geldof urges young entrepreneurs
472 words
17 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
8
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
LIVE Aid founder and activist Sir Bob Geldof has joined calls for today's young entrepreneurs and leaders to solve the climate change problem to create a sustainable future for all.

The activist, who spoke after Mary Robinson, the former Irish president, said we "need brave, young leadership that encourages us to change course and work for a world where we can live ordinary, healthy lives". Ms Robinson, a special envoy for climate change at the United Nations, was addressing young delegates at the start of the One Young World conference in Dublin on Wednesday.

"We're destroying any possibility of life for the future," added Sir Bob. "We're at a critical moment. Our time is gone. If you don't do it, there's a problem."

Ms Robinson criticised business leaders and politicians for failing to address climate change. "We can't have business as usual with a bit of green added," she said. "We need to transform economies and how we travel, how we live in cities and even climate–smart agriculture."

Sir Bob criticised the world's leading technology businesses: "Think of the great new companies of this supposed golden age, your Facebook, your Googles, your Amazons. They are no different from the companies of the past, who seek to sell you if you let them."

Young entrepreneurs must disrupt the energy industry to save the planet, said Ms Robinson. "We have to move from fossil fuels to renewables and do it fairly," she said.

In August, an MIT report entitled Expectations for a New Climate Agreement found that the planet is on course to warm by 4C within the next century, which would create a global disaster for humanity.

"We need to change before 2050 in order to stay below two degrees but we're not even spreading the right message yet," said Ms Robinson. "If we reach four degrees, there will be an estimated 200m migrants, climate displaced people."

Sir Bob said he was an entrepreneurial front–runner working towards political and environmental change when he launched Live Aid. "Back in the eighties, myself and a bunch of us got together to talk about the great African famines," he said. "They were not dying of hunger; they were dying because they had no money to get food."

He drew parallels with today's Ebola pandemic. "They are not dying of this filthy little virus in west Africa, they are dying because they do not have doctors, nurses, medicare, they are dying because they are poor. I don't like that."

The fifth One Young World conference has brought together 1,300 young delegates from 190 countries to debate the issues of the day, including peace and conflict; global business; human rights; and sustainable development.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141017eaah00003


NEWS
British-American Ebola patient tells US politicians to 'settle down'
By Nick Allen Dallas
332 words
17 October 2014
02:30 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Ashoka Mukpo takes to Twitter from his isolation unit to call for calm after watching US politicians debate the spread of Ebola in America on television.

A British-American Ebola patient being treated in the US has called for politicians to "settle down" after watching them debate the response to the disease on television.

Ashoka Mukpo, 33, a freelance television cameraman who contracted the virus in Liberia, weighed in as Dr Tom Frieden, director of the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention, was grilled at a congressional hearing.

Mr Mukpo, who is in an isolation unit in Nebraska, commented after seeing Dr Frieden being quizzed about whether dogs spread Ebola.

He said: "'Do dogs spread Ebola' – this hearing is really something else.

Settle down guys, health workers and people in west Africa are the ones at risk.

"So far the only people who have contracted Ebola and who weren't in Sierra Leone, Guinea, or Liberia recently are health workers. Key to remember that."

Another Ebola patient also made her thoughts known in a written statement issued from her isolation unit.

Nina Pham, 26, the first of two nurses to contract the virus, did so while treating Thomas Eric Duncan, who died from Ebola at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital on Oct 8.

She defended her hospital against allegations of incompetence. It has been accused of failing to give its nurses proper protective clothing and not taking enough safety precautions.

But Miss Pham said: "I appreciate everything that my co-workers have done to care for me at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas. I'm doing really well thanks to this team, which is the best in the world. I believe in my talented co-workers.

"I'm so thankful for the outpouring of love and support from friends and family, my co-workers and complete strangers. I feel very blessed, and have gained strength from their support."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141017eaah000ru


Editorial; Opinion, Columns
Our Armed Forces need some new enemies
JAMES KIRKUP
977 words
16 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
25
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
In the absence of war, the arguments for using soldiers as aid workers can only grow

When it comes to hitting precise targets, Britain's Armed Forces areas good as any, and often better. RAF fighters firing Storm Shadow missiles can hit the mark from more than 300 miles away. The Royal Navy's Harpoon missile can strike an enemy vessel 80 miles over the horizon. Army snipers using the L115A3 long–range rifle in Afghanistan have routinely killed at distances of more than a mile. Yet a viral particle of Ebola, measuring just a couple of millionths of a millimetre across, is a target beyond the accuracy of even these weapons. You can't shoot a disease.

Nevertheless, Ebola has become the latest enemy for Britain's military. Tomorrow, Royal Fleet Auxiliary Argus sets sail for Sierra Leone in Operation Gritrock, Britain's 400–man mission to slow the spread of the virus across west Africa. Elsewhere in the region, 4,000 US soldiers are deploying with a similar aim.

Why send troops on what is essentially a medical mission? People familiar with crisis–management work say it's not just about their clinical skills, although military medics are certainly among the best. What the Forces really bring to a situation like this is reassurance. When the world around you is dissolving into chaos, the presence of unflappable men and women in uniform is a handy antidote to panic.

But using the Armed Forces for humanitarian missions highlights a more fundamental question: what are they now for? After years of casualties and controversy in Iraq and Afghanistan, defence chiefs and politicians agree that the British public's appetite for foreign wars is at an almost subterranean low. Once the 13–year Afghan mission ends in a few weeks, no one expects Britain to fight a large–scale ground–based campaign for many years: our involvement against Isil in Iraq has been very carefully limited to RAF patrols and a handful of Special Forces soldiers. Parliament is reluctant even to allow a couple of jets to cross the Iraqi border into Syrian airspace, in order to target people who are hacking the heads off our fellow citizens. Goodness knows what it would take for politicians to authorise the deployment of thousands of British soldiers on to a foreign field.

So if we're not going to fight wars abroad, why have Forces that still cost more than £36 billion a year? The obvious answer is "defence", but defence against what? There are no conventional threats to Britain's territory or domestic interests. The French only invade with bankers, not battalions. Any Russian threat comes via espionage and the energy markets, not tanks and troops. Chinese aggression could yet spark an old–fashioned hot war around the Pacific, but only the US has the capacity to truly participate there; Beijing is still years away from being able to project military power as far as our own neighbourhood. As Malcolm Chalmers of the Royal United Services Institute concludes, "the risk to the UK of head–to–head conflict with peer competitors is likely to remain relatively small for the next decade or so".

But peace could spell financial trouble for the Armed Forces. Britain's fiscal crisis is far from over, meaning there are more cuts to come after the next election. With the biggest items of spending – the NHS and state pension – politically protected, every other part of the state can expect yet more pain. Britain is very likely soon to be spending less than 2 per cent of its GDP on defence, the minimum requirement for membership of Nato. Yet funding for international aid will remain above 0.7 per cent, held aloft by political consensus and – soon – a legal commitment.

Giving less to defence and more to foreign aid is perennially controversial. Listen to some critics of expanding the aid budget, and you might think abandoning the pledge would fund half a dozen new aircraft carriers. In fact, even after its recent increases, the aid budget is just over £11 billion, around 1.5 per cent of total expenditure. Not quite the pot of gold that some imagine – but in the age of austerity, every little helps, and defence chiefs have certainly been eyeing the aid budget hungrily for several years.

Quietly, the line between aid and defence spending is indeed blurring a little. The RAF aid drops for Yazidi civilians fleeing Isil in Iraq were largely funded by the Department for International Development. Likewise, Operation Gritrock. And never having come to terms with their leader's commitment to development spending, many Tories are keen to promise greater pooling of the two budgets in their manifesto.

There are limits to that ambition, however. Which spending counts towards the 0.7 per cent target is decided not by the Government, but the Organisation for Economic Co–operation and Development, a rich–country think tank. Its definition of development aid is curious: building nuclear power plants and art schools overseas counts as aid, but clearing minefields to allow military training does not.

Britain is fighting a lonely battle for more military activity to be designated as overseas aid – but realistically, the only way for the Services to get more development cash is to do more development work. Privately, even modern–minded officers bridle at the suggestion that the Armed Forces must become the "armed wing of DfiD". But in the absence of war, and public money, the arguments for using soldiers as aid workers can only grow. Perhaps, by taking on new enemies like disease, famine and even poverty, our soldiers can not only save some lives, but save themselves from the Treasury's axe.

Comment on James Kirkup's view at telegraph.co.uk/personalview

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141016eaag0006w


Ebola handshake: Broadcasters like me need to get a grip
By Cathy Newman Presenter, Channel 4 News
874 words
16 October 2014
09:01 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
As Western hysteria about Ebola spreads, Cathy Newman reflects on why she did the 'Ebola handshake' yesterday with a documentary maker fresh off the plane from Liberia

I’ve never thought of Studio 6 at ITN’s headquarters in Gray’s Inn Road as a particularly dangerous place. Sure, there’s a few camera cables strewn about the place and in the odd sepulchral corner you could trip up but…the chairs are comfy and the invited guests aren’t generally trying to kill you when they come to talk to me on Channel 4 News.

However, when I saw the front page of yesterday’s Sun, I thought perhaps I’d got the risk assessment all wrong. “BBC in Ebola panic, says Fiona Bruce”, warned the headline, explaining that staffers at the corporation were “terrified of catching Ebola from guests”. [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11163377/Fiona-Bruce-BBC-make-up-artists-worried-about-Ebola-risk.html]”, warned the headline,

I can honestly say that the thought of catching Ebola at work had never crossed my mind until that moment. According to Bruce, BBC make-up artists had become fearful about applying powder to people just back from Ebola-stricken parts of West Africa [http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2793696/bbc-ban-guests-ebola-hit-countries-entering-buildings-terrified-staff-fear-catch-disease.html] . “We have got make up artists who are saying: ‘Hang on these people are just turning up in our chair.’ They said: ‘They have just come in from Guinea? Do I want to be touching them?’ Which is not unreasonable.”

So in my straw poll of one, I asked our make-up artist Lisa yesterday afternoon how she felt about the impending arrival in Studio 6 of Sorious Samura, a documentary maker fresh off the plane from the Ebola hot-spot Liberia. Never one to make a drama out of a crisis, Lisa was profoundly unperturbed about powdering his nose.

Nevertheless, the BBC had planted the seed of doubt in my mind, and I started to wonder whether shaking Samura’s hand was necessarily a good idea. In the course of researching my interview, I discovered that in West African countries where the deadly disease is rife, people have stopped greeting each other in the usual way [http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-africa-29260185] . Instead, they’ve developed the “Ebola handshake” – crossing your right arm over your chest and tapping your shoulder.

More in jest than anything else, when Samura arrived in the studio, I didn’t offer him the palm of my hand, but went through the “Ebola handshake” motions. He responded with his own version. Clearly there are regional variations.

But seriously, when I saw a picture this morning of an ordinary woman waiting for a plane in Washington, clad head to toe in a hazmat suit [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11166839/Who-is-clipboard-man-man-without-Hazmat-suit-helps-Ebola-patient-onto-plane.html], I did think the Western world had gone slightly mad, and that I, with my pre-interview gyrations, was complicit in the madness.

There’s the school in Durham which has postponed a planned visit from a teacher from Ghana after an outcry from parents [http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2793965/parents-want-cancel-visit-ghanian-teacher-primary-school-amid-fears-trip-spread-ebola.html] . Ghana hasn’t had any recorded incidents of Ebola, and it doesn’t border the countries which have. You’re probably in more danger welcoming a guest from Texas. But even that is infinitely less hazardous than crossing the main road outside the office.

Then there’s another school in Stockport which has cancelled a trip by a charity aid worker from Sierra Leone and her son, who was due to study in England while his mum - who’s from the UK - was fundraising. The headteacher said she was reacting with a heavy heart to what she described as “misguided hysteria” from parents.

Don’t get me wrong. I understand that the authorities in Texas have damaged public confidence in the West because of their apparently cack-handed handling of the mini outbreak there. And yes, it’s bizarre that health workers in protective suits are falling victim to it, raising concerns among ordinary citizens about how vulnerable the rest of us may be. But let’s get those concerns in perspective – something the Government here seems inclined not to do.

Ministers have U-turned on airport screening. Yet as many experts have suggested, that’s a PR exercise which is of limited practical use since people trudging through arrivals could be carrying the virus but showing no symptoms.

The failure to check our fears is rather disturbing. As we in the developed world succumb to panic and, yes, hysteria, for months the people of Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea have been dying in their thousands. If the West had panicked when the first cases started emerging there last December, we might not be in the mess we’re in now. And more than four thousand deaths might have been avoided.

To me, it seems immoral that we’re only now bothering to send troops, money, and equipment [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/defence/11164706/Our-Armed-Forces-need-some-new-enemies.html] in anything like the quantity needed because we ourselves feel under threat. The deaths of several thousand West Africans didn’t send anyone – broadcasters, politicians, citizens – into a panic.

So sitting in Studio 6 interviewing a guest just back from the danger zone seems like a very small risk to take. Frankly, it’s the least I can do. Sorious Samura, thank you for coming in. And next time I’ll shake your hand.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141016eaag003eh


FINANCE
Terrifying US cluelessness on interest rates suggests politics is powerless
By Andrew Critchlow
1134 words
16 October 2014
06:04 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
From turmoil in markets, to Ebola and the Islamic State, global problems require global solutions that may not exist

Mining a rich seam in London

Clues to the current market turmoil can be found in the Scottish referendum, the Ebola outbreak, and a set of seventeen dots.

The last of these are the “dots diagrams” that the US Federal Reserve uses to illustrate where its officials think interest rates will be in the future. They provide a glimpse inside the decision-making process of the main monetary control room in the world. And the picture that emerges is, frankly, terrifying.

Fed officials currently believe that US interest rates at the end of next year could be anywhere between 0pc and 3pc. Opinions diverge even more for the end of 2016; the officials think that rates could be anywhere between 0.25pc and 4.25pc.

In other words, Fed officials have almost no clue at all where interest rate for the world’s largest economy will be in 15 months time. And these are the people who are supposed to be setting it. If they’re confused, what hope do the rest of us have?

For several months now the Federal Reserve has been winding down its bond-buying programme and hinting that it will raise rates at some point next year. But, after less than two days of market turbulence (and despite the fact that the Fed says it doesn’t target the markets), St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank President James Bullard yesterday said the Fed should consider prolonging QE.

Are these officials clueless? No. But the complexity of the issues they face is bordering on the overwhelming.

The eurozone looks like it is stuttering again and the market is worried that policymakers either can’t or won’t do anything about it.

The world is still massively over-leveraged. The global debt to GDP ratio hit a new record high of 215pc at the end of last year, up from around 200pc when the financial crisis hit. While one wouldn’t want to fall for the “household fallacy” of assuming all debt is bad, it is undoubtedly true that heavily indebted countries, like many of those in the eurozone, will find it increasingly hard to meet debt payment as inflation creeps ever lower.

When Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, said in 2012 that he would do “whatever it takes” to save the euro, he had the implicit backing of Germany. Now the mood music has changed. Indeed, Mr Draghi’s statement is currently being tested in the European Union’s highest court.

If the eurozone can’t be persuaded to save itself (and the rest of the global economy along with it) the crisis of democracy and representation in the developed world, which was illustrated by the Scottish referendums will worsen. Citizens feel that their elected representatives are powerless against the forces of globalisation. They may have a point.

The spread of Ebola, the rise of Islamic State and the world’s inability to tackle the threat of climate change all point to a failure of global co-ordination. People are asking themselves whether, if governance can’t be managed on a global scale, it mightn’t be better to push for more localised power.

Huge global problems require global solutions. But there is a scary possibility, even when you join up all the dots, that these simply don’t exist.

</br>Whether as a convenient place for top mining chief executives to discretely “break bread” together, or simply the best location to secure investment and do deals, London remains the pre-eminent global hub for resources companies.

The latest example of this came yesterday when BHP Billiton caved into shareholder and investor concerns and agreed to partly list its $15bn (£9bn) spin-off in the City. The decision marks a dramatic reversal for the world’s biggest mining company by market value after it had initially said it would place shares in “Newco” on the Australian and South African markets. It also ends completely rumours that began to circulate earlier this year - but were always denied by BHP Billiton’s management - that it was considering closing down its corporate presence in London all together in favour of Australia.

The Anglo-Australian mining giant was forged in 2001 through the merger of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company and Billiton, which was originally incorporated in the Netherlands over 150 years ago. The company agreed at the time to maintain a global headquarters in Melbourne, partly to ease the concerns of Australian regulators. To this day, chief executive Andrew MacKenzie keeps a house in the city, which was once a centre for the Australian mining industry.

The other main operational base in Australia is located far to the west in Perth, where it controls many of its operations in the Pilbara along with its rival Rio Tinto.

The decision to list some of Newco’s shares in London is an important win for the City and will help to secure its position as the world’s major financing centre for the mining industry. Resources companies such as BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto and Anglo American account for about 10pc of the value of London’s main market and alone create a vibrant financial eco-system upon which many of the City’s funds and investment houses can survive.

The recent example of the City’s importance to mining dealmakers came last week when Glencore revealed it had explored a $160bn mega-merger with Rio Tinto, the second largest mining company listed in London. Glencore has backed away but bankers are convinced that its chief executive Ivan Glasenberg is keen to push through some kind of deal with one of the mining group’s to expand his commodities empire.

Both companies insist that a lunch meeting between Mr Glasenberg and Mr Mackenzie in central London last week, just a day after details of the so called “GlenTinto” emerged, was prearranged. But more than a few eyebrows were raised among bankers in the City who are now convinced some kind of deal involving a combination of the big mining giants is imminent.

Even against the backdrop of yesterday’s collapse of London Mining - a small FTSE 250 Africa-focused resources company which has suffered from the 40pc collapse in iron ore prices - London wins. From the ashes of London Mining investors will acquire the assets and a new company will eventually rise from its ashes and problem base its shares in London, which attracts the world’s top investors in the sector.

“London is still the most important financial centre for mining,” a top mining executive recently told the Telegraph.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141016eaag0060r


FINANCE
Jimmy Choo narrows price range of London float
By Ashley Armstrong M&A Reporter
628 words
16 October 2014
06:40 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The luxury shoemaker is honing in on bottom end of its range valuing the business at around £620m

Jimmy Choo, the luxury shoemaker, has narrowed the price range for its London listing towards the bottom half of its range amid dampened enthusiasm for flotations.

The British shoe brand is understood to have investor support for pricing its shares between 140p and 160p, which could value the business at up to £620m.

Jimmy Choo had originally hoped to price the flotation at between 140p and 180p, which would have valued the business at around £700m at the top-end.

Jimmy Choo, gained huge popularity after its shoes were feted by Sarah Jessica Parker’s character in the American television show Sex and the City. The company typically sells its shoes for between £300 and £600 a pair.

The company’s owners JAB Holdings, the investment arm of the German billionaire Reimann family, revealed plans to list at least 25p [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/newsbysector/retailandconsumer/11115005/Jimmy-Choo-unveils-plans-for-London-float.html] c of the company in September. However, since then stock markets have fallen as investors become concerned about the health of the global economy.

The FTSE 100 has fallen almost 7pc in the past month as the spread of the Ebola virus has impacted jitters about the conflict in the Middle East and fears that the European economic powerhouse Germany is running out of steam.

Sources close to the flotation said that the lowering of the price range was not symptomatic of the global equities sell-off and was more typical of the company wanting a “pop” in the share price once it had debuted on the London Stock Market: “Pricing it sensibly means there is still room for the stock to rise once it has listed, rather than the owners wanting to squeeze every last drop of value out of investors”.

It is understood that the book is already covered at 160p and further investor meetings between City institutions and Jimmy Choo’s advisers Bank of America Merrill Lynch and HSBC are scheduled this week. A set price is expected to be decided on Thursday ahead of starting trading on Friday.

The funds raised are expected to be channelled into JAB's other Labelux brands which include Bally and Belstaff.

Jimmy Choo was co-founded in the 1990s by British designer Tamara Mellon under a Hackney-based Malaysian designer's name. She then steered the business through the hands of several private equity hands before acrimoniously leaving the in 2011.

Ms Mellon wrote an autobiography about her bitter experience [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/newsbysector/retailandconsumer/10340191/Jimmy-Choo-founder-Tamara-Mellon-puts-the-boot-into-private-equity.html] of private equity ownership of fashion companies.

A walk in Jimmy Choos

1996

Tamara Mellon persuades Jimmy Choo, a little-known Malaysian shoemaker based in Hackney, to launch a luxury shoe label under his name

1998

Jimmy Choo is catapulted to fame after its lilac and blue "feather shoes" are featured on Sex and the City

2001

Phoenix Equity Partners buys Choo's stake for £9m, gaining 51pc of the business

2004

Lion Capital buys Jimmy Choo for £100m. Both Tamara Mellon and Robert Bensoussan are tied in to the new business

2006

Choo licenses his name and opens a new fashion label, Jimmy Choo Couture

2007

TowerBrook buys Jimmy Choo for £225m, backing Mellon rather than Bensoussan

2008

Jimmy Choo named Designer Brand of the Year by the British Fashion Council

2010

David Cameron names Mellon one of Britain's Business Ambassadors

2011

TowerBrook sells Jimmy Choo to Labelux for £525.5m

July 2014

JAB takes full control of Labelux and hires bankers to advise on a potential flotation for the well-capitalised Jimmy Choo

September 2014

Jimmy Choo formally announces intention to float 25pc of the company on London's main market

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141013eaad004xu


CULTURE
Sandwich Woman: Kate is told she has just wasted six years of her life
By Sandwich Woman Allison Pearson
1534 words
16 October 2014
07:39 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Kate Reddy, the fictional working mum from 'I Don’t Know How She Does It', is back... and this week finds herself deciding to lie about her age, after an unpleasant interview with a headhunter

Kate Reddy, heroine of I Don’t Know How She Does It[http://telegraphbookshop.tbphost.co.uk/TBP.Direct/PurchaseProduct/OrderProduct/CustomerSelectProduct/FullProductDetail.aspx?d=telegraphbookshop&s=C&r=10000059&ui=0&bc=0&productId=10307562&backURL=%2ftbp.direct%2fpurchaseproduct%2forderproduct%2fcustomerselectproduct%2fsearchproducts.aspx%3fd%3dtelegraphbookshop%26s%3dC%26r%3d10000059%26ui%3d10365113%26bc%3d1%26keywordSearch%3dallison%2520pearson%26productGroupId%3d] – the international best-selling novel by Allison Pearson[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/comment/columnists/allison-pearson/] which began life as a weekly Telegraph column – was a working mother juggling a crazy job, two small children, a long-suffering husband and a giant to-do list. Now aged 49 and a half, Kate is dealing with hormonal teenagers, her own menopause, a spouse who has retrained as a counsellor and increasingly frail elderly parents. In middle age, Kate finds herself squeezed between the demands of two generations while still trying to make sense of life.

7.07am

“Dear God. Listen to this, Kate.” Richard looks up from the paper, squinting in the wintry light. Since his mid-life crisis, my husband has started reading The Guardian. Your average menopausal male can be relied upon to purchase a leather jacket and the services of 6ft Russian blondes. Mine buys a book called Mindfulness: A Practical Guide to Accessing the Calmer, Kinder You. He decides to retrain as a counsellor and starts fretting about the health and safety deficiencies in Bolivian tin mines. It’s hideous. I’d rather he got a Harley-Davidson.

“It says here: 'Hackers access 100,000 Snapchat photos and prepare to leak them, including under-age nude pics.’ Darling, do the kids have this Snapchat thing?”

“Erm, drner.”

“Lucky we know Emily isn’t going to be posting pictures of her genitals for public consumption, but lots of parents haven’t got a clue what their kids are up to on social media.”

“Ingggmr.”

“We have those parental controls on their stuff, don’t we?”

“Course we do. Fancy a bacon butty?”

“I won’t say no if you’re offering.”

Over 20 years together, the bacon sandwich has never failed me as a distraction for Richard. If he ever goes vegetarian – as looks increasingly likely, judging by the woven bracelet he now wears around his wrist – our marriage is doomed. Anyway, I’m not lying to Rich, not exactly. The kids do have parental controls on their iPads and phones. What I don’t tell him is that, since the Snapchat of Emily’s bare bottom went viral, I freaked out and called up Dave the computer genius. Dave told me how to get into the history on Em’s computer. Scrolled down and found she had used MY CREDIT CARD to download “How to use a proxy to bypass parental control filters”. What can you do? It’s like I’m a Stone Age person living with Steve Jobs.

7.17am

“We are not going to find it any faster if you shout at me like that, young man. EXCUSE ME, what did you call me?”

Ebola is spreading across the globe, we are either going to be killed by plague or bearded nutters, but what really matters right now is that Ben’s left football boot is missing. And this is my fault. Because, in my given role as Mother of Teenagers I’d Cheerfully Murder, everything is now my fault, even things I have never seen nor heard of or have simply forgotten – which, let’s face it, is increasingly likely. Eighteen months into the peri‑menopause and the great library of my mind is reduced to one overdue Barbara Cartland.

Is that why I started lying about my age? Look, it wasn’t vanity, it was self-preservation. When I knew I needed some extra work to pay the mortgage – shortly after my husband decided he was the Dalai Lama – I got in touch with a London headhunter who was anxious to fill his female quota, as laid down by the Society of Investment Trusts. The sort of well-connected chap who can put a word in the right hairy ear and get you a non-executive directorship. I figured if I had a couple of those under my belt I could still look after Mum and the kids and keep an eye on Richard’s parents. On paper, everything looked great. Hell, I could do two non-execs in my sleep! And then I met Gerald Kerslaw.

Office in one of those monumental, wedding-cake houses in Holland Park. Front steps felt like scaling the White Cliffs of Dover. Hadn’t worn decent shoes for a while – amazing how quickly you lose the ability to walk in heels. I felt like Bambi on cobblestones. Amazing, too, how fast all the confidence you built up over a career ebbs away. Years of knowledge brushed aside in minutes.

“So, Mrs Reddy, you’ve been out of the City for how long? Seven years?”

“Six. But I’ve taken on a lot of responsibilities since then. Kept up my skillset, I read the FT every day and…”

“I see.”

Kerslaw was holding my CV at a distance as if it had a bad smell. Ex‑Army, helmet of silver hair; a small man whose shiny face bore the stretched look of someone who had always wanted to be three inches taller. The pinstripes on his jacket were a fraction too wide; it was the kind of suit only worn by Tory MPs after they’ve appeared in a Sunday tabloid.

“Treasurer of the PCC?” he asked, raising one eyebrow.

“Yes, that’s the parochial church council in our village. Books were a mess, but it was quite hard to persuade the vicar to trust me to manage their 1,900 quid. I mean, I’d been used to running a £400 million fund so it was quite funny really and…”

“I see. Now, moving on to your time as chairman of the governors at Beckles (is it?) Community College. Of what relevance might that be, Mrs Reddy?”

“Kate. Please call me Kate. Well, the school was failing, about to go into special measures actually, and it took a huge amount of work to turn it around. I had to change the management structure, which was a diplomatic nightmare. You can’t believe school politics, seriously, and there was all the legislation to adhere to and the inspection reports. So much red tape. I instigated a merger with another school so we’d have the money to invest in frontline staff and bring down classroom sizes. It made Mergers and Acquisitions look like the Teletubbies.”

“I see,” said Kerslaw, not an atom of a smile on his face. “And you were not working full-time because your mother was unwell, I believe?”

“Yes, Mum – my mother – had a heart attack, but she’s much better now. I’d just like to say, Mr Kerslaw, that Beckles Community College is one of the fastest-improving schools in the country, and we’ve got a terrific new head who…”

“Quite. So what I need to ask you is: if one of your children were to be ill when a board meeting was scheduled, what would you do? It’s vital that, as a non-exec, you would have time to prepare for the meetings and, of course, attendance is compulsory.”

I don’t know how long I sat there staring at him. Seconds? Minutes? I can’t promise that my jaw wasn’t resting on the floor. Did I really have to dignify that question with an answer? It seems I did. So I told the headhunter prat with his trying-too-hard red silk jacket lining that, when I was a fund manager, my children had occasionally been ill and I had always arranged back-up care.

“You see,” said Kerslaw, steepling his fingers like an archdeacon in a Trollope novel, “our problem is that, while you undoubtedly had a very impressive track record in the City, there is simply nothing you have done in the six years since you left Edwin Morgan Forster which would be of any interest to my clients. And then there is the question of your age. Late forties and, I’m afraid, fast approaching the cohort parameter beyond which…”

“Fifty’s the new 35,” I croaked. My mouth was dry. Don’t cry, Kate. Let’s just get out of here, please don’t cry and make a scene. Men hate scenes, this one especially, he’s not worth it.

Back on the pavement, I took first a deep breath and then a decision. Henceforth, Kate Reddy would not be 49 and three quarters; Adrian Mole in Jimmy Choos, and a total irrelevance. She would be 42: the answer to life, the universe and everything. If Joan Collins could knock 20 years off her age to secure a part in Dynasty, I could sure as hell knock seven off mine to get a job in financial services and keep my own dynasty going.

From now on, against all my best instincts, and trying not to imagine what my mother would say, I shall become a liar.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141016eaag006sh


NEWS
British Army medics arrive in Sierra Leone to fight Ebola
By Olivia Rzadkiewicz Video source Ministry of Defence
449 words
16 October 2014
05:31 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A team of medics from the British Army arrive in Sierra Leone as part of the international response to tackle the spread of Ebola

British Army medics are due to arrive in Sierra Leone[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/sierraleone/] today to help in the fight against Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/], as global leaders promise to step up the international community's efforts to halt the spread of the killer disease.

A team of 91, including nurses, doctors and infectious disease consultants, will join 40 soldiers already in the west African country to work at a UK-supported treatment centre, which has 12 of its 92 beds set aside for healthcare workers who risk infection while treating others.

Their arrival comes ahead of the departure tomorrow of Royal Navy ship RFA Argus[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11161534/RFA-Argus-loaded-with-supplies-for-Ebola-mission-to-Sierra-Leone.html], which is due to reach the area by the end of the month with a further 225 military personnel from a total planned deployment of 750.

After speaking to US president Barack Obama and the leaders of Germany, France and Italy by video conference call yesterday, Prime Minister David Cameron was today chairing the latest meeting of the Government's Cobra contingencies committee in Whitehall to discuss the UK's response, which has already seen screening of air travellers introduced at Heathrow airport.

The British Army medics, who will be based at Kerrytown - around 30 miles from Sierra Leone's capital, Freetown - have had nine days of intensive training on how to treat victims of the virus while preserving their own safety and that of other healthcare staff.

Commanding officer Lieutenant Colonel Alison McCourt, of 22 Field Hospital, based at Normandy Barracks in Aldershot, said: "We need to provide sufficient reassurance to healthcare workers that will encourage them to come and help defeat this disease.

"This unit has been the 'Vanguard' medical regiment for the past 20 months which means we are on high readiness to deploy at short notice to anywhere in the world - although this is a bit different and provides us with a challenge, we are perfectly suited to this kind of task.

"I firmly believe we can make a significant difference and it will be professionally rewarding for those taking part."

Meanwhile, British Ebola survivor and volunteer nurse Will Pooley said he is preparing to go back to west Africa to help deal with the epidemic because it is "something I need to do".

The 29-year-old, from Eyke in Suffolk, said he knows that his family and friends will be worried but stressed that there was an urgent need for strong medical support to tackle the virus.

Video: © Crown copyright 2014

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141016eaag0063k


NEWS
'Who is clipboard man?': man without Hazmat suit helps Ebola patient onto plane
By Andrew Marszal
427 words
16 October 2014
03:45 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Man with no protective clothing, carrying only a clipboad, photographed helping second US Ebola patient board her plane

The second person to contract Ebola in the US[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11165953/Second-US-Ebola-nurse-caught-flight-before-diagnosis.html] was helped onto her plane yesterday by a group of health officials wearing Hazmat suits - and one mysterious man who had apparently decided not to bother donning the protective clothing.

Many took to social media last night to question who the suited man holding a clipboard was, and why he had ventured so close to the Ebola patient with so little regard for his own well-being.

Fox News anchor Kari Lake wrote: "Who is the #clipboardguy ? #Ebola patient in yellow and this fool has no protection? A clipboard?"

Former US congressman and radio host Joe Walsh wrote: "'You need a hazmat suit? Nah, I'm good. I got a clipboard"

Another user tweeted to the Centre for Disease Control - the US health agency overseeing the operation to contain the virus - "Who is unprotected clipboard dude...so we can all stay the hell away from him!"

It later emerged he works for the air ambulance company that handled the flight.

Amber Vinson became the second nurse from Dallas Presbyterian Hospital to be diagnosed with Ebola after caring for Thomas Eric Duncan, who died there last week. About 75 other members of the medical team are being monitored for signs of the disease.

Miss Vinson was being airlifted to Emory University Hospital in Atlanta, where Ebola experts have successfully treated other patients who contracted the disease in Africa, when the photographs of the "clipboard man" were taken.

Miss Vinson told authorities that she had flown from Cleveland back to the Texas City on Monday, the day before she became ill, through airports used by tens of thousands of passengers each day.

President Barack Obama was forced to cancel a campaign trip to hold an emergency Ebola summit at the White House amid growing condemnation of the chaotic federal response to the arrival of the disease in the United States.

In wake of the criticism, he pledged that US monitoring of would be Ebola “much more aggressive” and that the Centre for Disease Control would send a "SWAT team" within 24 hours to any hospital encountering a new case.

He warned that the disease could spread globally if the international community does not do more to tackle the outbreak in Africa as he urged world leaders to step up their efforts to defeat it there.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141016eaag0038u


FINANCE
What are the greatest threats to the world economy?
By Robert Colvile
970 words
16 October 2014
08:59 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The turmoil in the stock markets this week reflects the scale of the obstacles to recovery

After yesterday’s plunge in the stock markets[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/markets/marketreport/11163622/US-economic-fears-spark-global-sell-off.html?WT.mc_id=e_3615307&WT.tsrc=email&etype=citydesk&utm_source=email&utm_medium=Edi_Cit_New_111207_XXXXXXXX_Tues-Fri+9+Sections_2014_10_16&utm_campaign=3615307] – which saw £46 billion wiped off the FTSE – worries about the health of the global economy have gone from investment-community chatter to front-page news. Over the past few weeks, sentiment about the global economy’s prospects has steadily been turning sour[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/markets/marketreport/11162946/Market-report-Investor-pessimism-over-economy-rises.html] . But why?

The truth is that the road to a sustainable recovery Is strewn with some pretty massive tank traps (for the most comprehensive list, see my colleague Ambrose Evans-Pritchard’s back catalogue[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/comment/ambroseevans_pritchard/] ). Worse, they’re not separate problems – each one has the potential to make the effect of the others much, much worse. And even if they don’t cause a second crash, they could well leave the world – or at least the West – mired in “secular stagnation”[http://www.theguardian.com/business/2014/oct/07/imf-gloom-global-economy-growth-secular-stagnation], a condition of permanently low demand and low growth.

On which cheery note, here’s the list of reasons why George Osborne and Mark Carney are having sleepless nights…

Political uncertainty is rife

Yes, political uncertainty is always rife – but in uncertain times, the markets take it more seriously than ever. If you’re trying to fix the world economy, it doesn’t exactly help when key players in that economy aren’t talking to each other, because (for example) one of them’s invaded Ukraine[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/ukraine/11106813/Ukraines-president-pleads-for-US-weapons-to-fight-Russia.html] . True, America’s shale gas and oil revolution and weak global demand have helped the oil price remain low[http://online.wsj.com.proxy.bc.edu/articles/global-oil-glut-sends-prices-plunging-1413334648] despite Isil’s escapades in the Middle East. But if the Ebola outbreak spreads, it could act as a big drag on growth as people stay home rather than working for fear of catching the disease.

America and China are slowing down

The two great engines of the world economy, which have done the most to drag the world out of the downturn, are starting to splutter slightly. US retail sales declined in September[http://www.reuters.com/article/2014/10/15/us-usa-economy-idUSKCN0I41E220141015], helping to trigger the recent sell-off on the markets. In China, inflation has slipped to a five-year low[http://blogs.wsj.com.proxy.bc.edu/chinarealtime/2014/10/15/economists-react-rise-in-prices-shows-chinas-economy-is-still-struggling/] as the economy cools, prompting the government to consider further intervention to spur things along.

Europe is still a mess

In an ideal world, as the US and China falter, Europe would pick up the slack. But that’s not happening. Germany, the continent’s powerhouse, has just cut its growth forecast from 1.8 per cent to 1.2 per cent[http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-29618609], and the rest of the Eurozone is hardly in better shape. The continent is sliding steadily into a triple-dip recession[http://online.wsj.com.proxy.bc.edu/articles/european-policy-makers-at-odds-as-eurozones-economic-woes-deepen-1413320253], and may well drag Britain – one of the world economy’s few bright spots – down with it. As a result…

Deflation is lurking

As growth is sucked out of the economy, inflation falls – something which appears to be happening across the world[http://online.wsj.com.proxy.bc.edu/articles/risk-of-deflation-feeds-global-fears-1413419211] . On one level, that’s a good thing: it means our wages go further as prices get lower. But on the macro scale, it kills off growth and demand, leading to the kind of decades-long slump seen in America in the Thirties or Japan more recently. Worse, central banks have pretty much exhausted their fiscal arsenal, so they would find it much harder to launch the kind of full-scale monetary operation needed to reverse this. Oh, and the icing on the cake is that deflation also hugely increases the value of your debts. Which is a problem because…

The world economy is still crippled by debt

A few weeks ago, Jeremy Warner flagged up the findings of the latest “Geneva Report”[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11129108/Mass-default-looms-as-world-sinks-beneath-a-sea-of-debt.html], which pointed out that global debt ratios (both public and private) have actually risen since the financial crisis, and is reaching new highs by the month. If deflation increases their value, it could tip a swathe of countries and companies – including pretty much every nation in southern Europe – into depression and even default. Even without such an apocalyptic scenario, a large overhang of debt acts as a handbrake on growth, further suppressing opportunities for the world to push past its problems.

Quantitative easing has become a curse, not a blessing

This is the biggest problem of all, and ultimately lies behind many of the others. Put simply, the world economy has become addicted to stimulus[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11165982/World-economy-so-damaged-it-may-need-permanent-QE.html], and can’t operate without its fix of cheap money. America and China are both hoping to unwind their programmes – but the European Central Bank hasn’t yet picked up the slack, leaving the markets panicking about how demand will be supported. Cushy conditions have also led investors to make bets that may turn sour[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11162217/BIS-warns-on-violent-reversal-of-global-markets.html] as fiscal conditions become less kind.

Interest rates may be about to rise

Ultra-low rates went hand in hand with QE as part of the post-crisis rescue effort. Central banks want – and need – to reverse that[http://www.usatoday.com/story/money/markets/2014/09/23/what-do-rising-interest-rates-mean-to-you/16103537/] . But even the smallest rise could tighten demand unpleasantly, and spook markets that have become dependent on the current conditions. In fact, it’s got to the stage where…

No one knows what a ‘normal’ economy looks like

Over the five years since the crash, central banks have engaged, as mentioned above, in an unprecedented and utterly necessary rescue operation. But in doing so, they have wrenched the fiscal system so far out of shape that it may not actually be possible to get back to normal. Even developments that would normally be positive may, in this new environment, have unwanted side-effects: for example, the developing world has loaded up on American bonds so much that if the US economy revives, and the dollar rises, it could actually wreak havoc[http://www.investing.com/analysis/a-rising-dollar-prompts-a-fall-in-the-developing-world%E2%80%99s-currencies-227750] by increasing their debts. We may well be able to emerge unscathed – but it will be a matter of luck as much as judgment.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141016eaag003eg


NEWS
Ebola crisis: British Army medics on parade before flying out to Sierra Leone
By Leon Watson
275 words
16 October 2014
08:10 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Britain is sending 91 medics from 22 Field Hospital in Aldershot to run a field hospital in Sierra Leone

These are the British Army medics being sent out to West Africa on parade before they flew out to help in the fight against Ebola.

Britain sent 91 medics from 22 Field Hospital in Aldershot on Thursday to run a field hospital in Sierra Leone and provide medical support to healthcare workers.

Before their departure, commanding officer Lieutenant Colonel Alison McCourt said: "We need to provide sufficient reassurance to healthcare workers that will encourage them to come and help defeat this disease.

"This unit has been the 'Vanguard' medical regiment for the past 20 months which means we are on high readiness to deploy at short notice to anywhere in the world - although this is a bit different and provides us with a challenge, we are perfectly suited to this kind of task.

"I firmly believe we can make a significant difference and it will be professionally rewarding for those taking part."

Ebola has killed more than 4,500 people [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/], nearly all in West Africa.

Army personnel, who will be based at Kerrytown, around 30 miles from Freetown, the capital of Sierra Leone, received nine days of intensive training in treating those affected with the disease.

Those travelling on Thursday are usually based at Normandy Barracks in Aldershot and will join 40 UK soldiers already in Sierra Leone.

The treatment unit will contain 12 beds and run alongside a facility which will eventually be run by Save the Children.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141016eaag002h3


Ebola British army medics 'well trained' and ready to help fight against virus
By Telegraph Video video source ITN
218 words
16 October 2014
08:08 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
91 medics from 22 Field Hospital in Aldershot will run a field hospital in Sierra Leone and the commanding officer says the team is in good spirits

British Army medics being sent out to West Africa were on parade [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11166436/Ebola-crisis-British-Army-medics-on-parade-before-flying-out-to-Sierra-Leone.html] ahead of flying out to Sierra Leone[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/sierraleone/] to help fight against Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] .

91 medics from 22 Field Hospital in Aldershot on Thursday will run a field hospital in the West African country.

They will also provide medical support to healthcare workers to help stop the virus which has killed more than 4,500 people[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/], nearly all in West Africa.

Lieutenant Colonel Alison McCourt, the commanding officer of 22 Field Hospital said her team of army medics is well trained and in good spirits as they prepared for their flight.

"We need to provide sufficient reassurance to healthcare workers that will encourage them to come and help defeat this disease.

"This unit has been the 'Vanguard' medical regiment for the past 20 months which means we are on high readiness to deploy at short notice to anywhere in the world - although this is a bit different and provides us with a challenge, we are perfectly suited to this kind of task."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141016eaag0030l


NEWS
Ebola crisis: Heathrow Airport screening extended to terminals two and five
By Danny Boyle
264 words
16 October 2014
07:45 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Public Health England extends ebola screening to two more terminals at Heathrow airport for passengers returning to Britain from Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea

British Ebola survivor returning to West Africa

Screening for ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola] at Heathrow airport has been extended to terminals two and five, Public Health England said.

Travellers arriving at terminal one from Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea began facing enhanced screening and medical checks[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11160038/Ebola-crisis-huge-disruption-expected-at-Heathrow-as-screening-begins.html] on Tuesday.

The guidelines, under which people will be questioned about travel arrangements and recent contacts, have now been extended.

The Government had earlier insisted additional checks were not necessary, but changed guidance following advice from the Chief Medical Officer Dame Sally Davies.

Enhanced screening is also set to be implemented at Gatwick and Eurostar Terminals later this week.

Jeremy Hunt, the Health Secretary, last week said that 89 per cent of people travelling to Britain from the affected region would be checked, but admitted one in 10 taking indirect routes would slip through screening.

He told MPs it was "likely" that Ebola will be seen in the UK and a "handful" of cases could be confirmed in the next three months.

Meanwhile, it has been disclosed that a nurse working at the hospital in Dallas where a Liberian man died of ebola has contracted the virus[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11164105/Second-Texas-nurse-contracts-Ebola-after-treating-Thomas-Eric-Duncan.html], becoming the second person in the United States to catch the disease.

The unnamed nurse was working at the Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital, where Thomas Eric Duncan was cared for. He died on October 8.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141015eaaf0040k


FINANCE
FTSE 100 sell-off and the interesting parallels with the late 1990s
By Tom Stevenson
590 words
16 October 2014
07:39 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Comment: Tom Stevenson looks at the stock market's tumble and at what investors should do

After two years of eerie calm, markets have come over all 2008 again.

The promise from Mario Draghi, the head of the European Central Bank, to do "whatever it takes" in June 2012 ushered in a Mogadon market in which prices drifted serenely higher. This month investors woke from their happy stupor.

Market gyrations like these are unsettling and it is far easier to recommend deep breaths and detachment than to actually stay calm. Steep falls in equity markets and, perhaps more alarming, big swings in the usually ponderous government bond market suggest hidden stresses.

Some context is helpful. Markets on both side of the Atlantic are down by around 10pc from their highs last month. That kind of correction hurts, but it is not unusual. Since 1950 the S&P 500, the most representative US index, has fallen by 13pc or more in a three-month period on 24 occasions. In 15 of these, the market rebounded by more than 20pc over the following year.

Yes, all is not well in the global economy or markets. The oil price has slumped by a quarter since June. A widely watched index of market volatility, the Vix index, also known as Wall Street’s Fear Gauge, has spiked higher. The bond market, which so often acts as a canary in the coal mine, had a worrying wobble in the summer, presaging trouble ahead in the stock market.

Investors are worried on four fronts. They sense a reversal of the economic recovery in America, a slide to recession and deflation in Europe, and the end of the China growth miracle. Politically, the world is more unstable than ever. Ebola has shown that a deadly virus is only a short flight away. Most importantly, the investor’s perennial friend over the past five years, money printing, comes to an end this month.

The world seems a more complicated place than a couple of years ago. The simple narrative of the "two speed world" – fast in emerging markets, slow developed – cannot explain the divergences between the winners (US, UK, India) and the losers (China, Europe, Russia, Brazil).

There are interesting parallels with the late 1990s. After five or so years of steady recovery from the recession at the beginning of that decade, the Asian crises and collapse of an over-stretched hedge fund, Long Term Capital Management, ushered in a two-year period of strong market gains but increased volatility.

I believe we remain in a bull market, led by the US, fuelled by a strengthening dollar and weaker commodity prices (which put money in the pockets of consumers and reduce companies’ costs). Markets are not unduly expensive and sentiment is poor. We have not reached the end-game where credulous investors are sucked into the market on a wave of excessive optimism.

At times like these the best thing to do is usually nothing at all. An investor who remained fully invested in the market during the 20 years from 1994 would have made a cumulative return of over 300pc. One who missed just the 10 best days in the market by withdrawing during periods of volatility would have reduced their total return by two thirds.

Short-term volatility is the price that stock market investors pay for long-term outperformance.

Tom Stevenson is investment director at Fidelity Personal Investing

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141015eaaf005bq


NEWS
Six reasons why stock markets are tumbling
By Dan Hyde Consumer Affairs Editor
719 words
16 October 2014
05:42 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
What has caused share prices to fall 10 per cent in a month?

1 Greece

2 America

3 Ebola

4 Europe

5 General nervousness

6 Deflation threat

More than £46 billion was wiped off the stock market on Wednesday as fears over the health of the global economy caused the biggest dip in share prices for almost a year and a half.

In a blow to savers, the FTSE 100 fell 181 points, 2.8 per cent, to just 6212 - its lowest since the summer of 2013. Financial markets around the world experienced a similar plight[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/markets/marketreport/11163622/US-economic-fears-spark-global-sell-off.html] . The market recovered slightly on Thursday morning[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/newsbysector/epic/ftse100/11166290/Markets-rebound-after-day-of-turmoil-in-global-markets.html], but is still almost 10 per cent down on its 6880 peak in early September.

Here, in no particular order, are some of the reasons...

</br>There are fears over the stability of the Greek government and its bail-out plans. David Madden, an analyst at IG, said: "It looks like we are entering another phase of the eurozone debt crisis." Greek share prices on Wednesday fell to their lowest level in 2014 as the country headed for an early election. A radical left opposition to the Greek government appears to be gaining momentum, opinion polls suggest.

</br>The world's biggest economy looks weaker than it did a few months ago. Poor retail figures and a slowdown in manufacturing have put it on the back foot. US retail sales declined 0.3 per cent in September, marking the first fall in seven months.

The Federal Reserve, America's central bank, may now have to wait longer to raise interest rates. The outlook for America, China and Germany tends to set the pace for global share prices, which have become closely aligned due to globalisation.

</br>Crises make investors nervous. And nervousness leads to selling shares. Ebola has killed about 4,500 people so far, mostly in Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone. This week, it was revealed that a second American nurse has contracted the virus[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11165953/Second-US-Ebola-nurse-caught-flight-before-diagnosis.html] . The disease is spreading, experts said. Anthony Banbury of the UN said: "It is running faster than us, and it is winning the race."

</br>The eurozone could feasibly slip back into recession, analysts have said. And it's not just Greece where there are concerns. Germany, the eurozone's biggest economy, has reported a fall in exports and slashed growth forecasts. Prospects across the Continent had "gone from bad to worse", according to City analysts Capital Economics, which downgraded its growth prediction for the year from 1 per cent to 0.7 per cent.

</br>Jitters, they call it. Panic "gripped the market", according to one commentator in the Financial Times. Worries are often caused by global threats to health and security. One example is Ebola, but there are many around at the moment – for example, the geopolitical tensions in Syria, Iraq, Hong Kong and Ukraine. As these situations remain unresolved, traders anticipate difficulties for global companies that rely on exports and imports, as trade is disrupted. Jim Reid of Deutsche Bank said: “We’ve had a steady increase in bad news over the last month and it’s got to a point now where the market is nervous enough that incremental bad news is the straw that breaks the camel’s back.”

</br>Deflation is bad news, generally speaking, for economic growth and so investors are watching with apprehension. Inflation figures have fallen in many parts of the world. In the UK for instance, consumer prices index (CPI) inflation is now just 1.2 per cent – a five-year low.

What is meant by deflation? Essentially, it means that the buyers of goods and services don't trust the price in the shop window; they expect it to be lower next week. For example, someone might put off buying a car for £10,000 thinking that next week it will be £9,900. When the next week arrives, the person delays the purchase again, thinking the price will fall to £9,800 in a few days. And so on.

Ben Yearsley of stockbrokers Charles Stanley said: "The global economy does appear to be under threat, particularly from deflation in Europe, where prices have started to fall, and this could be contagious for the UK."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141016eaag001jl


News; Front Page
Salmond: referendum helped the recovery
Simon Johnson
637 words
16 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; Scotland
1,4
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Salmond 'struggling to face reality' as he claims reference aided recovery

ALEX SALMOND was accused of struggling to face up to reality yesterday after claiming that the independence referendum had bolstered Scotland's economic recovery and declaring that there would be another vote.

The First Minister attempted to take credit for strong growth figures and tumbling unemployment in August and claimed the improvements were linked to "political confidence" from the referendum.

But he then demanded that the economic powers needed to increase employment be transferred from Westminster and – less than a month after his decisive referendum defeat – declared "there shall be" another vote with a "better" result.

Danny Alexander, the Chief Secretary to the Treasury, said the Scottish figures were part of a strong UK recovery that separation would have killed "stone dead" and questioned how Mr Salmond could take credit for them while admitting he lacks the relevant economic powers.

The First Minister's comments at an STUC conference were undermined by disclosures over the past week that the Bank of England was ready to flood the financial markets with millions of pounds to deal with the turmoil from a Yes vote and that Scotland's house prices fell.

They were the latest in a series of outspoken interventions since his decisive defeat, which have included him raising the prospect of Scotland declaring independence unilaterally and repeatedly claiming No voters were "tricked".

Official figures published yesterday showed unemployment fell by 40,000 between June and August, the largest quarterly fall on record in Scotland, with the jobless rate standing at 5.5 per cent.

This was better than the UK average of six per cent but lagged behind areas of southern England. Separate figures showed that Scotland's economy grew by 0.9 per cent in the second quarter.

George Osborne, the Chancellor, said the figures showed the Coalition's long–term economic plan, which Mr Salmond has loudly opposed, was bearing fruit.

However, the First Minister linked them to the referendum by stating "political confidence and economic confidence go hand in hand". The Unionists retained commanding opinion poll leads in August but Mr Salmond said the figures showed that "having the referendum saw the biggest fall in unemployment in Scottish history in the weeks leading up to the vote."

Predicting another referendum, he added: "Scotland will never be the same again, it will be better. Next time, and next time there shall be, it will get better yet."

Mr Salmond said the "voices of doom" during the campaign who pointed to falls in the stock markets as evidence independence would damage the economy "have a great deal of explaining to do".

He added: "Since the No vote the stock market has collapsed by more than six per cent – over £100billion has been wiped off the value of shares. Has this been linked to the No vote?"

A rogue YouGov survey at the start of September showing the nationalists had taken a shock lead wiped millions of pounds off the stock market value of some of Scotland's largest companies and hit sterling.

Although the pound rebounded after the No vote, international stock markets have fallen over the past month amid increasing nervousness about the health of the global economy, the Ebola outbreak, the end of quantitative easing in the US and the falling oil price.

Mr Alexander said: "'Mr Salmond struggles to face up to the fact that the strength of Scotland's recovery is precisely because we are part of the United Kingdom, not in spite of it … Separation would have killed this recovery stone dead."

Margaret Curran, the shadow Scottish secretary, said: "The First Minister needs to respect the sovereign will of the people of Scotland and ditch his suggestion of another referendum."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141016eaag00094


News
Second US nurse falls victim to Ebola virus
Philip Sherwell
622 words
16 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
3; National
18
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
AN EBOLA outbreak in America moved closer yesterday when a second Dallas nurse tested positive for the disease a day after she took a flight from Ohio to Texas through two international airports.

President Barack Obama cancelled a campaign trip to hold an emergency Ebola summit at the White House amid growing condemnation of the chaotic federal response to the arrival of the disease in the United States.

He discussed the outbreak earlier in a video conference with David Cameron and the German, French and Italian leaders, and warned that the disease could spread globally if the international community did not do more to tackle the outbreak in Africa.

Nurses' leaders condemned what they alleged were alarming safety breaches at the Dallas hospital at the centre of the crisis, claiming that a Liberian man who later died of the disease was left in a waiting room with other patients, and health workers treated him with inadequate protective gear.

In wake of the criticism, Mr Obama pledged that monitoring would be "much more aggressive" and that the Centre for Disease Control would send a "Swat team" within 24 hours to any hospital encountering a new case.

Amber Vinson, 29, became the second nurse from Dallas Presbyterian Hospital to be diagnosed with Ebola after caring for Thomas Eric Duncan, who died there last week. About 75 other members of the medical team are being monitored for signs of the disease.

Miss Vinson is to be airlifted to Emory University Hospital in Atlanta where Ebola experts have successfully treated other patients who contracted the disease in Africa.

Miss Vinson told authorities that she had flown from Cleveland, where she had been visiting her mother to make preparations for her wedding, back to the Texas city on Monday, the day before she became ill, through airports used by tens of thousands of passengers each day.

Other passengers on the Frontier Airlines flight were being contacted by health officials and given a hotline number to call. Doctors said Miss Vinson was reportedly not showing symptoms of the disease on the plane, so there should be no risk of infection.

Officials claimed that she broke monitoring guidelines when she flew to Ohio and back to Texas after treating Mr Duncan. Medical staff who cared for him were not supposed to take commercial flights.

An unnamed man in Ohio known to have had contact with Miss Vinson was quarantined, although he showed no Ebola symptoms, and other people whom she met were being sought.

Mr Obama convened the White House summit after officials at the CDC admitted that a faster and more concerted federal response to Mr Duncan's case could have prevented the infection of others.

Nina Pham, 26, another nurse, is said to be in a "good condition" after becoming the first person to contract the disease in America after also helping to care for Mr Duncan.

The hospital was criticised by some of its own nurses in an extraordinary statement issued anonymously by one of the country's main nursing unions. "Were the protocols breached?" asked Deborah Burger, a co–president of the union, National Nurses United. "The nurses say there were no protocols."

Mr Duncan was initially sent home from the hospital, despite arriving at the emergency room with symptoms of the disease and disclosing that he had recently arrived from Liberia where he had contact with an Ebola victim.

The president also sought to reassure Americans that the danger of a wider outbreak in the US was "very, very low".

He tried to calm fears, saying that he "shook hands with, hugged and kissed" nurses at the Atlanta hospital who treated previous cases.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141016eaag0008w


Business
Turmoil in the US bond market was caused by politicians and regulators
Allister Heath
769 words
16 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
2
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Business Comment

Financial analysts have an uneviable task: they must predict the unpredictable. Markets respond in non–linear, chaotic manner to information; sentiment can shift regardless of fundamentals, especially when feedback mechanisms are faulty. This is what seems to be happening in the stock, bond, commodity and currency markets right now.

I'm not just referring to the latest slide in the FTSE 100, which can quite easily be rationalised as being the response to a slowing eurozone economy, intensifying geopolitical tensions, Ebola and a raft of real changes. The real madness was to be found in the bond markets yesterday.

The end of QE – and thus of central banks buying government debt – was meant to send bond prices down and yields shooting up. Instead, bond yields collapsed dramatically over a very short period of time in the US yesterday. Early in the morning, 10–year yields were 2.23pc; they suddenly crashed to 1.86pc, with the bulk of the change happening within a few minutes. The yields then rose back up to around 2pc. This is a massive shift of a sort seen only extremely rarely; there were undoubtedly plenty of safe haven purchases going on but they shouldn't have had such an impact.

The usually bearish Capital Economics went as far as to argue that the "growing sense of market panic" suggested by the massive declines in share prices and the strong rally in US Treasury bonds is "hard to square with the solid outlook for US economic growth". Despite the emergence of shale, it still expects (pretty plausibly, I would argue) that lower oil prices and long–term interest rates will provide a net boost to real US growth, even after the slump in equities.

So what happened? One reason for the bond market volatility is the unintended consequence of new banking regulations, the costs of which have been dangerously under–appreciated. The markets have been severely weakened, increasing the chance of a flash crash or price spike.

One of the least well understood functions that banks perform is "market making": they buy when other people aren't buying and they sell when other people aren't selling. They will charge a fee for that, of course, and the fewer buyers and sellers, the higher the fee. But to provide the service at all they need to hold securities on their books and thus ride out the short–term peaks and troughs in the market.

This is called inventory and the principle is the same as in a well–stocked corner shop – the owner makes sure he has enough boxes of cornflakes to handle a sudden jump in demand and is never out of stock.

The problem is that bank regulation has made it much more expensive to hold that inventory. This is where abstract concepts such as capital adequacy have real world implications. Rule–makers around the world have asked banks to set aside more capital against the securities that they hold on their books – the riskier the securities, the higher the capital charge. In theory, this makes sense: it is clear that banks were disastrously undercapitalised in the mid–2000s.

But banks can react to these new rules in two ways: they can increase the amount of capital they hold, which is very costly and can make entire activities unviable, or they can reduce the value of the securities on their books. In reality, banks have done a combination of both – with the mix varying from firm to firm. But traders report that overall Wall Street and City firms are certainly holding much less inventory than they were. One recent estimate from Lombard Odier Investment Managers is that banks have cut the size of balance sheets allocated to marketmaking by 75pc, compared with pre–2008 levels.

Many have warned that, were there to be a sharp market correction, banks wouldn't be able to step in and buy when others were selling or sell when others are buying. The consequence, they said, was that market movements would be sharper than otherwise might have been the case. The regulators have, in effect, removed the markets' safety net. In a worst–case scenario, a sudden movement could further spook the markets and lead to a nasty negative feedback loop.

Yesterday's bond market turmoil – and its speed and savageness – suggests that the critics were right about the regulatory onslaught of recent years. Liquidity has dried up on a massive and damaging scale, and government and regulators are to blame.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141016eaag00021


Business
Turmoil as MARKETS tumble worldwide
Ben Martin
668 words
16 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
1
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
FTSE100 endures worst one–day slide in 16 months

Poor US data spark sell–off

US bond yields suffer sharp fall

FINANCIAL markets around the world were plunged into turmoil yesterday after poor data from the US heightened fears over the health of the global economy.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled as much as 460 points, a 2.8pc drop, and the S&P 500 lost as much as 3pc on Wall Street. Yields on safe–haven 10–year Treasuries briefly crashed to 1.86pc – the lowest level since May last year – before partially rebounding, a sudden fall that took traders by surprise.

The violent moves were mirrored by markets across the world. In London, the FTSE 100 dived 181.04 points to 6,211.64, a 2.8pc drop. It was the worst one–day slide for 16 months, taking the index to its lowest level since June last year and wiping £46bn off its value.

The FTSE MIB in Italy was down 4.4pc, the CAC 40 in France tumbled 3.6pc and Germany's DAX lost 2.9pc. The pan–European Stoxx Europe 600 fell 3.2pc, a decline that meant the index had officially entered a correction. Similarly, London's benchmark index is almost in correction territory, having dropped nearly 10pc from its recent peak.

Meanwhile the Vix, which measures market volatility, spiked as much as 36pc to its highest level since November 2011. Brent crude futures slumped to about $84 a barrel. Unsettling economic data from the US was the major catalyst for the sell–off. Retail sales fell by a worse than expected 0.3pc last month; producer prices slipped 0.1pc and manufacturing in New York also slowed. The data spurred speculation the US Federal Reserve would push back raising interest rates, putting further pressure on Treasury yields.

Deutsche Bank strategist Jim Reid said: "The one hope is the US economy is actually OK at the moment and the retail sales numbers were pretty weak. The most sensational activity of the day was 10–yearTreasuries," he said. "That was an astonishing move over a short period." Concern about the Greek government's plan to exit its bail–out programme a year early added to broader investor nervousness. The ASE stock index in Athens plunged as much as 10pc, the most in nearly six years, and yields on 10–year Greek sovereign debt climbed as high as 7.85pc, well above the key 7pc level that is seen as unsustainable, amid fears the country will struggle to fund itself on the international markets.

However, Greece's woes are just one worry that has driven the global sell–off in recent weeks. Data indicating the global economy is weakening, the slump in the oil price, the spread of Ebola and geopolitical tensions have all hit market sentiment. There is also concern that Germany, the eurozone's biggest economy, will slide back into recession.

Emmanuel Cau, a strategist at JPMorgan Cazenove, said: "Hedge funds have been reducing their exposure to equity markets partly due to concern that the global economy is weakening and the earnings outlook is worsening."

The withdrawal of US stimulus measures, with the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing programme forecast to end this month, has added to financial market fragility.

Mr Reid said: "The Fed has done a wonderful job over the last two years of elevating asset prices and dampening volatility and that period has now come to an end. It seems that the fears that we had, that the market was addicted to liquidity, have started to come true.

"We've had a steady increase in bad news over the last month and it's got to a point now where the market is nervous enough that incremental bad news is the straw that breaks the camel's back."

Comment: B2

'The market is nervous enough that incremental bad news is the straw that breaks the camel's back'

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141016eaag0000v


Global Handwashing Day: can you tell the real internationally-recognised holidays?
By Oliver Duggan
235 words
16 October 2014
02:42 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
There are an astonishing 118 days designated by the United Nations as an official 24-hour window to recognise everything from toilets to mountains.

That means there's a UN "International Day" for something more than twice a week. This week, the International Days for disaster reduction, rural women, food and for the eradication of poverty will all be observed.

It's also Global Handwashing Day, which competes with rural woman but has this year attracted attention for falling amid the most deadly outbreak of Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] in history.

The disease, which has killed more than 4,000 people around the world, is contracted through contact with infected bodily fluids.

“Handwashing with soap is one of the cheapest, most effective ‘vaccines’ against viral diseases, from the seasonal flu, to the common cold,” said Sanjay Wijesekera, head of UNICEF’s global water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) programmes.

“Our teams on the ground in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea are stressing the importance of handwashing as part of a raft of measures that are needed to halt the spread of Ebola. It is not a magic bullet, but it is a means of additional defence which is cheap and readily available.”

The charity has so far distributed 1.5 million bars of soap in Sierra Leone alone, and millions more in Liberia and Guinea.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141016eaag000ul


NEWS
US health officials allowed nurse who treated Ebola patient on plane with slight fever
By Nick Allen Dallas
455 words
16 October 2014
02:19 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
In their latest Ebola blunder US health officials told nurse Amber Vinson she could get on a flight despite having a fever

A nurse infected with Ebola was authorised by those in charge of the US response to the disease to get on a commercial flight despite having a fever.

It was the latest in a catalogue of blunders and raised further questions about the competence of America's effort to contain the virus.

Amber Vinson, 26, was one of the nurses who treated Thomas Eric Duncan - America;s "patient zero" -: who died in the Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital on Oct 8.

She flew to Cleveland two days later to make preparations for her wedding there, returning to Dallas on Monday on Frontier Airlines Flight 1143, before being diagnosed the next day.

Initially, Dr Tom Frieden, director of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), had appeared to blame Miss Vinson for the incident, saying she "should not have traveled on a commercial aircraft".

But it has emerged that she contacted the CDC several times before doing so because she was concerned that her temperature, which she was self-monitoring, was slightly elevated at 99.5F.

CDC officials told her that because her temperature had not reached 100.4F symptomatic of Ebola, she could board the plane.

One government official admitted: "She was not told not to fly."

The day after the flight she went to hospital in Dallas, was immediately isolated, and subsequently diagnosed with Ebola. A total of 132 people who were on the Frontier Airlines planes are being contacted.

Dr Frieden said: “Although she did not report any symptoms and she did not meet the fever threshold of 100.4F, she did report at that time she took her temperature and found it to be 99.5F.

"We will from this moment forward ensure that no other individual who is being monitored for exposure undergoes travel in any way other than controlled movement."

Miss Vinson has now been airlifted for treatment at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta.

She was the second nurse diagnosed with Ebola after treating Mr Duncan. Nina Pham, 26 is in a "good" condition in hospital.

Nurses have claimed there were "no protocols" in pace at the Texas hospital for treating an Ebola patient.

President Barack Obama canceled a trip to Rhode Island today, where he was due to talk about eh economy.

He also shelved a fundraising engagement in New York to focus on the response to Ebola, the White House said.

Mr Obama had previously cancelled fundraising and campaign visits to New Jersey and Connecticut yesterday.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141016eaag0008d


NEWS
Second Texas nurse contracts Ebola after treating Thomas Eric Duncan
By Harriet Alexander
404 words
15 October 2014
10:34 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A nurse in Texas has become the second person to contract Ebola in the United States, which she caught while tending to a Liberian man who died in an American hospital

A nurse working at the hospital in Dallas where a Liberian man died of Ebola [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] has contracted the virus, becoming the second person in the United States to catch the disease.

The unnamed nurse was working at the Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital, where Thomas Eric Duncan was cared for. He died on October 8.

The nurse began feeling ill and tests were carried out at a clinic in Austin, Texas. They were confirmed to be positive at around midnight on Tuesday.

"Health officials have interviewed the latest patient to quickly identify any contacts or potential exposures, and those people will be monitored," said the hospital in a statement.

Duncan, who contracted the disease in Monrovia when he helped his Ebola-infected pregnant neighbour, travelled to the US unaware he had the virus. He went to hospital and was sent home with antibiotics before the seriousness of his condition was realised.

He is thought to have come into contact with 76 medical workers [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11160583/Fears-for-70-hospital-workers-who-cared-for-Americas-patient-zero.html] – all of who are now being tested for the virus.

Another nurse, 26-year-old Nina Pham, was the first person to have been infected by Ebola in the United States [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11157106/Second-US-Ebola-victim-infected-despite-protective-suit.html], and was diagnosed this weekend.

She had cared for Duncan during much of his 11 days in hospital. On Tuesday the hospital said she was "in good condition".

But the sickness of a second medic will raise further questions about America's readiness to handle Ebola – despite previous assertions that it was well-equipped to deal with the disease.

Thomas Frieden, director of the Centre for Disease Control (CDC) said on Tuesday that he wished his agency had done more to help the hospital control the infection.

He said that, from now on, “Ebola response teams” will travel within hours to any hospital in the United States with a confirmed Ebola case. Already, one of those teams is in Texas and has put in place a site-manager system, requiring that someone monitor the use of personal protective equipment.

“I wish we had put a team like this on the ground the day the first patient was diagnosed,” he said. “That might have prevented this infection.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141015eaaf003bl


NEWS
Barack Obama: Ebola monitoring must be 'more aggressive'
By Agencies
443 words
15 October 2014
07:38 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Deadly disease could spread globally if the world does not respond to the epidemic in Africa, president warned

President Barack Obama vowed to provide "much more aggressive" monitoring of Ebola cases in the US and warned that in an age of frequent travel the disease could spread globally if the world doesn't respond to the "raging epidemic in West Africa."

In his most urgent comments on the spread of the disease, Obama also sought to ease growing anxiety and fears in the U.S. in the aftermath of a second nurse being diagnosed with Ebola after treating a patient in a Dallas hospital. He said he had directed the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to step up its response to new cases.

"We want a rapid response team, a SWAT team essentially, from the CDC to be on the ground as quickly as possible, hopefully within 24 hours, so that they are taking the local hospital step by step though what needs to be done," he said.

Obama spoke after cancelling a political campaign trip to convene a session of top Cabinet officials involved in the Ebola response both in the U.S. and in the West African region where the disease has been spreading at alarming rates.

Participants in the meeting were a roster of Cabinet secretaries and top Obama advisers, including Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, Attorney General Eric Holder, Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Gen. Martin Dempsey.

Hours before Obama canceled his trip, officials confirmed that a second nurse at a Dallas had tested positive for the virus after treating an Ebola patient who later died. The disclosure raised new fears regarding the exposure by other health care workers. Officials also revealed that the nurse was on a commercial flight the evening before being diagnosed.

The Texas developments added a new domestic element to what has developed into an Ebola crisis in the West African countries of Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia. Obama has been pressing the international community to step up its assistance in combating the disease.

On Wednesday, Obama spoke by phone with British Prime Minister David Cameron, French President François Hollande, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi. The White House said Obama stressed that the world must provide the finances and personnel needed "to bend the curve of the epidemic" and said it amounts to a "human tragedy as well as a threat to international security."

He made a similar case to Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Tuesday, the White House said.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141015eaaf00669


FINANCE
Politicians and regulators to blame for market madness
By Allister Heath
1112 words
15 October 2014
06:33 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The FTSE 100 and Dow Jones are falling, but the real turmoil can be found in bond markets

Financial analysts have an uneviable task: they must predict the unpredictable. Markets respond in non-linear, chaotic manner to information; sentiment can shift regardless of fundamentals, especially when feedback mechanisms are faulty. This is what seems to be happening in the stock, bond, commodity and currency markets right now.

I’m not just referring to the latest slide in the FTSE 100, which can quite easily be rationalised as being the response to a slowing eurozone economy, intensifying geopolitical tensions, Ebola and a raft of real changes. The real madness was to be found in the bond markets yesterday.

The end of QE – and thus of central banks buying government debt – was meant to send bond prices down and yields shooting up. Instead, bond yields collapsed dramatically over a very short period of time in the US yesterday. Early in the morning, 10-year yields were 2.23pc; they suddenly crashed to 1.86pc, with the bulk of the change happening within a few minutes. The yields then rose back up to around 2pc. This is a massive shift of a sort seen only extremely rarely; there were undoubtedly plenty of safe haven purchases going on but they shouldn’t have had such an impact.

The usually bearish Capital Economics went as far as to argue that the “growing sense of market panic” suggested by the massive declines in share prices and the strong rally in US Treasury bonds is “hard to square with the solid outlook for US economic growth”. Despite the emergence of shale, it still expects (pretty plausibly, I would argue) that lower oil prices and long-term interest rates will provide a net boost to real US growth, even after the slump in equities.

So what happened? One reason for the bond market volatility is the unintended consequence of new banking regulations, the costs of which have been dangerously underappreciated. The markets have been severely weakened, increasing the chance of a flash crash or price spike.

One of the least well understood functions that banks perform is “market making”: they buy when other people aren’t buying and they sell when other people aren’t selling. They will charge a fee for that, of course, and the fewer buyers and sellers, the higher the fee. But to provide the service at all they need to hold securities on their books and thus ride out the short-term peaks and troughs in the market.

This is called inventory and the principle is the same as in a well-stocked corner shop – the owner makes sure he has enough boxes of cornflakes to handle a sudden jump in demand and is never out of stock.

The problem is that bank regulation has made it much more expensive to hold that inventory. This is where abstract concepts such as capital adequacy have real world implications. Rule-makers around the world have asked banks to set aside more capital against the securities that they hold on their books – the riskier the securities, the higher the capital charge. In theory, this makes sense: it is clear that banks were disastrously undercapitalised in the mid-2000s.

But banks can react to these new rules in two ways: they can increase the amount of capital they hold, which is very costly and can make entire activities unviable, or they can reduce the value of the securities on their books. In reality, banks have done a combination of both – with the mix varying from firm to firm. But traders report that overall Wall Street and City firms are certainly holding much less inventory than they were. One recent estimate from Lombard Odier Investment Managers is that banks have cut the size of balance sheets allocated to marketmaking by 75pc, compared with pre-2008 levels.

Many have warned that, were there to be a sharp market correction, banks wouldn’t be able to step in and buy when others were selling or sell when others are buying. The consequence, they said, was that market movements would be sharper than otherwise might have been the case. The regulators have, in effect, removed the markets’ safety net. In a worst-case scenario, a sudden movement could further spook the markets and lead to a nasty negative feedback loop.

Yesterday’s bond market turmoil – and its speed and savageness – suggests that the critics were right about the regulatory onslaught of recent years. Liquidity has dried up on a massive and damaging scale, and government and regulators are to blame.

Pay bosses market rates

THERE were two important job changes in the City yesterday: BG Group, the FTSE 100 energy company, hired Helge Lund, the head of Norway’s Statoil, as its new chief executive and Balfour Beatty named Leo Quinn, chief executive of QinetiQ, as its new boss.

The reaction from the markets was swift and unequivocal: Statoil’s and QinetiQ’s share price fell and BG’s and Balfour Beatty’s rose in early trading. Of course, a part of the rise might simply have been relief that the two companies have finally sorted their leadership issues but markets are more sophisticated than that. Investors believe that the two bosses will add a substantial amount of value, which is why shareholders are happy to pay well as long as good systems are in place.

We shall soon find out if they are right, of course, but at first sight both appointments look good. Quinn is a very solid operator; his first priority will be to steady the ship and get back to basics. He understands the need to exercise greater financial control and focus on cash generation. His task will be immense, of course. From shareholders’ perspective, it would make more sense to sell the business – if that is eventually what happens – when it has been nursed back to health rather than now, when it is at its weakest. They will be hoping that Quinn will be able to pull it off.

Lund’s appointment is undoubtedly a coup; Statoil is a major firm but controlled by the Norwegian state, which means that its top executives are woefully under-paid. BG Group can pay a market rate for talent. The firm has had a torrid couple of years – a string of profit warnings since October 2012 and a lengthy leadership void. If Lund is able to crack these problems, while navigating the treacherous waters of UK politics, he will be worth every penny.

allister.heath@telegraph.co.uk

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141015eaaf005xx


FINANCE
Greek borrowing costs lurch back to crisis levels
By James Titcomb
348 words
15 October 2014
12:30 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
10-year bond yields hit 7pc, the rate considered unsustainable by investors, as eurozone growth fears continue

Greek borrowing costs have risen above the eurozone "crisis-level" for the first time in over six months as fears about the country's abilities to repay its debt resurface.

Ten-year yields hit 7.063pc on Tuesday - the first time they have been above the psychologically-important 7pc barrier since March.

Greek bond yields fell below this level earlier this year for the first time since 2009, an event that was seen as a mark of confidence returning to the eurozone.

Returns fell to around 5.5pc as recently as last month but have crept back up in October as questions about growth return.

Inflation in the single currency region is at perilously low levels and the eurozone's core territories – France and Germany – are struggling.

German investor sentiment fell for the 10th straight month to hit a 22-month low in October, according to the influential Zew survey.

The reading fell to -3.6 points from 6.9 points in September, worse than analyst predictions of a flat figure.

The eurozone's biggest economy is facing the prospect of falling into recession this year, as sanctions on Russia bite. The economy shrank by 0.2pc in the second quarter of the year.

Other factors hitting investor confidence are the spread of the deadly Ebola virus, and conflict in the Middle East.

However, yields in Germany, France, Italy and Spain fell on Tuesday, making Greece an outlier, suggesting other fears are plaguing investors.

The rise of the radical left Syriza party, led by Alexis Tsipras, is also a potential factor. The party, currently leading in the opinion polls, has advocated defaulting on Greece’s debts and reversing the country’s austerity measures.

Economists at Citi pointed out that a snap election, expected to be called if the current parliament’s presidential candidate is not approved, would be likely to make Syriza the largest party in a new parliament.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141014eaae002bk


NEWS
Anti-germ jacket 'protects against flu and viruses'
By Soo Kim
719 words
15 October 2014
04:40 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A new protective 'flu-fighting’ jacket claims to keep travellers free from the ‘germ-ridden hazards’ of public transport

The Germinator Transit Jacket is a softshell water-resistant jacket featuring a high zippered collar and pull-out sleeve cuffs made with a silver-infused, anti-microbial fabric that can keep your hands, face and neck area covered when in a germ-infested environment.

The jacket, created by the Chicago-based innovation consultancy group gravitytank[http://www.gravitytank.com/], may not necessarily protect travellers from catching Ebola and it "vigorously discourages field tests", but claims it "can't say for sure that it won't help".

The Germinator is, however, designed to enable you to “discreetly protect yourself” from sneezes, coughs or “a thick brew of backwashed breath”, as well as “reckless farts” when someone “lets out a silent but deadly one” on a bus or train, according to Betabrand[http://www.betabrand.com/mens-germ-defense-transit-commuter-jacket.html], the crowdfunding clothing company where the jacket was launched.

Its removable and washable mesh sleeve cuffs come with a thumbhole on each arm which can be pulled over to cover your hands when grabbing onto a pole or other handles on a bus, train or other form of public transport.

The coat also has a built-in outer pocket for your travel card on its right sleeve for easy access, as well as zippered front pockets and an internal chest pocket. A removable hood, which comes with cords that can tighten the hood to your head, offers extra protection, while its breathable fleece lining comes with interior vents that help you cool down when it gets too hot. The jacket allows a bit of room for wearing extra layers and can be machine-washed and ironed as needed.

The Germinator, which will be available for shipping from next January, is the latest in a series of unusual jackets and protective gear[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/picturegalleries/10179416/Bizarre-travel-accessories.html?frame=2910944] that have been available to travellers.

Earlier this year, a multi-pocketed trench coat and vest[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/travelnews/10803798/The-trench-coat-that-beats-baggage-charges.html] claimed to offer a surprisingly stylish solution to cutting baggage fees. The SeV Women’s Trench, which appears to be a classic trench coat, is designed to carry “as much as the average carry-on bag in specially-engineered pockets” said a spokesman for the company.

It comes with 18 pockets cleverly hidden inside the coat that allow wearers to carry up to two mobile phones, a digital camera, an iPad, a water bottle, keys, a passport and ID card, a USB/Bluetooth stick, pens and a stick of lip balm. There are separate deep pockets for your hands.

Cautious beach lovers on China's crowded Qingdao coastline took sun protection to another level in 2012 by donning " face-kinis[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/picturegalleries/9489745/Face-kini-Chinas-new-swimwear-trend.html] ", masks that shield the face from exposure to the sun. The face-kini covers the entire face except for the eyes, nose and mouth, and is often worn with a long-sleeved shirt or a full body wet suit for complete protection. It is thought that the bright orange versions of the masks can help scare away sharks.

The Kuchofuku Air-Conditioned cooling shirts and trousers[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/picturegalleries/10179416/Bizarre-travel-accessories.html?frame=2617967] have small battery-powered fans built into their pockets which keep you cool by circulating air into the garment. Its creator Hiroshi Ichigaya, a former Sony technician, admits his garment isn't fashion-friendly and also tends to make you look rather inflated from all of the extra air flow. The four-inch fans, with batteries that can be charged on a USB port, can be removed before washing the garment.

The NosiLife Ultimate Hat[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/picturegalleries/10179416/Bizarre-travel-accessories.html?frame=2618035] is meant to keep harmful UV rays and insects away from the face, with a protective mesh fabric draped over its rim. Users can adjust the drawstring to create a closed but see-through cocoon around the face. The foldeable hat also features a hidden pocket.

Win one of 40 holidays worth £800,000 [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/travel-competitions/10944252/Telegraph-Travel-Awards-2014.html]

Telegraph Travel Awards 2014: vote for your favourite destinations and travel companies for the chance to win one of 40 luxury breaks worth a total of £800,000.

Travel Guides app [https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/travel-guides-by-telegraph/id793779955?mt=8]

Download the free Telegraph Travel app[https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/travel-guides-by-telegraph/id793779955?mt=8], featuring expert guides to destinations including Paris, Rome, New York, Venice and Amsterdam

Follow Telegraph Travel on Twitter [https://twitter.com/TelegraphTravel]

Follow Telegraph Travel on Facebook[https://www.facebook.com/Telegraphtravel]

Follow Telegraph Travel on Pinterest[http://www.pinterest.com/telegraphmedia/]

Follow Telegraph Travel on FourSquare[https://foursquare.com/telegraph]

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141014eaae004s9


NEWS
Ebola crisis: sales of masks on the rise
By Natalie Paris
492 words
15 October 2014
04:40 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Masks that claim to help protect the wearer from catching the Ebola virus are doing a brisk trade online, even though the virus is not airborne

Medical opinion has uniformly held that the virus cannot be contracted in this way, but that has not stopped manufacturers attempting to sell “survival packs” to concerned customers.

Reviews for products on Amazon, the online retailer, recommend masks with fine filters as protection against the virus.

One “Ebola protective kit”, available for $40 (£25), comes with a mask and a "tear and puncture resistant" suit. The kit is apparently small enough “to keep one in your home and one kit in your car, for a quick get away”. The advert states that there are “only 20 left in stock”.

Closer to home, an advert for medical face masks sold by a company based in Rochdale, Nightingale Nursing Supplies, claims its masks, at ten for £9.99, are “recommended by WHO (World Health Organisation) for protection against Ebola”.

“We have sold hundreds since the Ebola outbreak, they are selling quite well, sales are increasing,” a spokesman for the company told the Daily Mail[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2790956/sales-soar-ebola-survival-kits-boiler-suits-face-masks-available-online-little-2-99.html], adding, “they are going out to people across the country, some nurses, but mainly members of the public.”

Face masks became popular in China in 2003, when the Sars outbreak hit.

Clothing brands are also attempting to profit from public concern. An anti-germ jacket “Germinator”, has a “silver-infused anti-microbial fabric” on sleeve cuffs[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/travelnews/11162903/Anti-germ-jacket-protects-against-flu-and-viruses.html] for those who fear picking up germs on public transport.

It is currently being promoted on a US crowdfunding website, Betabrand.com, for the price of $223.20 (£140).

Germinator transit jacket CREDIT: Betabrand

Antibacterial handwipes would be a better buy however, according to the Telegraph’s travel doctor, Dr Richard Dawood, who warned against the sale of equipment that exploits fear without offering any effective protection.

“Ebola is not airborne,” he said. “Putting on and removing protective equipment requires careful training, and even skilled healthcare workers get things wrong: face masks (and any other “protective" items) that are potentially contaminated on their outer surface during use would have to be removed and disposed of without contaminating the wearer, which is more tricky than it sounds.

“A more logical precaution would be to travel with alcohol-based hand sanitiser, or antibacterial hand wipes, and to use them often, since surface contact is a more likely source of contamination.”

Win one of 40 holidays worth £800,000 [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/travel-competitions/10944252/Telegraph-Travel-Awards-2014.html]

Telegraph Travel Awards 2014: vote for your favourite destinations and travel companies for the chance to win one of 40 luxury breaks worth a total of £800,000.

Travel Guides app [https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/travel-guides-by-telegraph/id793779955?mt=8]

Download the free Telegraph Travel app[https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/travel-guides-by-telegraph/id793779955?mt=8], featuring expert guides to destinations including Paris, Rome, New York, Venice and Amsterdam

Follow Telegraph Travel on Twitter [https://twitter.com/TelegraphTravel]

Follow Telegraph Travel on Facebook[https://www.facebook.com/Telegraphtravel]

Follow Telegraph Travel on Pinterest[http://www.pinterest.com/telegraphmedia/]

Follow Telegraph Travel on FourSquare[https://foursquare.com/telegraph]

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141014eaae00461


News; Front Page
Ebola confusion at Heathrow
29 words
15 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
1
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Screening begins as Marines sail to Sierra Leone: Pages 6 &7

MATT 'Your luggage had a temperature, so we lost it'

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141015eaaf000a5


News
Heathrow staff shook our hands before we were screened for Ebola
Patrick Sawer
1038 words
15 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
6,7
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Ebola crisis

IMMIGRATION officers at Heathrow shook hands with passengers from Africa on the first day of the emergency screening measures for Ebola, a traveller arriving back from Liberia claimed yesterday.

Reports suggested that the screening was being carried out on a "haphazard and voluntary basis" in apparent contradiction of health advice about contact with potential carriers of the deadly virus.

Travellers on connecting flights from West Africa – where the disease has killed more than 4,000 people in Liberia and Sierra Leone – said they had not been obliged to undergo checks. They claimed they were given the option of being screened for symptoms of the virus or allowed to pass through the airport unchecked.

Sorius Samura, 51, a documentary maker who had spent 10 days in Liberia making a film on the crisis, said the British authorities did not appear to be taking the situation seriously enough.

He added: "I've just come back via Brussels and our flight was met by an airport official saying we might be screened. He even shook our hands. That's something nobody does now in Liberia and infected countries; you have to learn not to."

Mr Samura said that when passengers on his flight eventually reached the immigration desks, they were given the option of filling in a questionnaire and undergoing screening, or simply passing through.

He added: "Most of the people who had been on our flight from Liberia to Brussels didn't go into the screening room, they just seemed to go through to customs and presumably out of the airport."

Mr Samura opted to be screened and, along with several other passengers, filled out a questionnaire asking if they had any flu–like symptoms or a fever. Those who said they did had their temperature taken.

"I only went through the screening because I felt a sense of responsibility, having seen the effect of Ebola where I've been," he said.

Clive Patterson, 32, who had been working with Mr Samura in Liberia, underwent further screening in a side room, but only because he volunteered the fact that he had been within 6ft of Ebola victims.

Yet even in his case, the measures appeared far from strict. He said: "I was questioned a bit more than the others about my potential contact after I told them I had been working close to patients and corpses.

"I was told I would be monitored more over the coming days. But the thermometer I was supposed to use to do that hadn't arrived yet, so they sent me off without it and just gave me the number of a local health team to stay in touch with. It seemed a bit haphazard."

Mr Samura and Mr Patterson said checks were far stricter when they left Liberia and they had been expecting a similar standard of screening on arrival in Britain.

"They're very on the ball there.

You wash your hands all the time before you go into or exit a building and the staff at the airport are wearing masks. We should be taking this a lot more seriously than we are doing in Britain. To be honest it was a complete joke at Heathrow," said Mr Samura. Mr Patterson added: "I got the sense the airport officials were really only finding their feet and the only person who seemed to know what he was doing was the medical officer who questioned me further."

Screening was introduced at Heathrow yesterday and will be extended to Gatwick and the Eurostar terminal at St Pancras in central London later in the week. The checks are expected to cost £9million over six months.

The screening at Heathrow is being carried out by staff from Public Health England, though the initial point of contact for passengers is immigration staff. Some staff were understood to be unhappy that they were being placed in contact with potential Ebola carriers without having had specialist training.

Responding to reports that immigration officials had been shaking hands with passengers, a spokesman for Public Health England claimed that World Health Organisation advice stated that the disease could not be caught through such basic contact unless someone was showing advanced symptoms. He said: "If you have passed the exit screening at the country of departure and you are well enough to be getting on the plane and walking off the other end you are not symptomatic and would not pass the disease on by shaking hands with someone. There has to be intimate contact with bodily fluids for the virus to be transmitted."

David Cameron acknowledged yesterday that the screening was not perfect but he believed that putting in extra checks was worthwhile.

"We are doing this on the basis of sound medical advice," he said.

Dr Paul Cosford, the director of Public Health England, added: "We will be learning from the experience over coming days. The principal benefit is about distributing information to people about the symptoms to look out for and who to contact in the event that they do get symptoms when they are in this country."

Asked if screening was mandatory for those arriving from infected countries, he replied: "We expect people to come through and we cannot see why they wouldn't [be screened]. It depends what you mean by mandatory. My understanding is that they have to do it."

Dan O'Mahoney, the chief of staff at Border Force, said there was no "script" for dealing with passengers who did not want to comply.

Meanwhile, officials admitted they had no immediate plans to screen illegal migrants for the Ebola virus at Calais or Dover.

In August, Public Health England issued guidance for Immigration Removal Centres stating: "The incubation period of Ebola ranges from two to 21 days, and so whilst unlikely, it is not impossible that a person infected in Guinea, Liberia or Sierra Leone could arrive in the UK before developing symptoms."

'Most of the people who had been on our flight from Liberia to Brussels didn't go into the screening room, they just seemed to go through to customs and out of the airport' Sorious Samura

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141015eaaf0009b


News
Passengers asked if they have seen a 'traditional healer'
177 words
15 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
7
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Airport watch

People from countries affected by Ebola are to be met by clinicians at Heathrow while the disease is rife.

Passengers flying to Britain will have to fill out an "Ebola health assessment questionnaire". This asks whether they have been in contact with suspected Ebola victims or have visited "traditional healers" or have been admitted to hospital in their home country.

They are also asked whether they have such symptoms as headaches, vomiting, diarrhoea or unexplained bleeding.

Border officials at the airport will pass them on to Public Health England staff who will take their temperature. A high reading could be a sign of fever connected with Ebola.

They will then be either freed, referred for further assessment, classed as low risk and sent away with information on how to monitor themselves, or classed as high risk and monitored.

There are plans to expand the system to other airports or ports if necessary but the Government stresses that most travellers from West Africa arrive at Heathrow.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141015eaaf0009a


News
World warned to expect 10,000 new cases a week
Philip Sherwell
140 words
15 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
6
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
WEST Africa could see up to 10,000 new Ebola cases a week within two months, the World Health Organisation said yesterday.

The death rate has risen to 70 per cent for people who contract the virus, above the WHO's estimate of 50 per cent – already a high figure for a disease. The agency increased its death toll to 4,447 yesterday, nearly all in West Africa, from 8,914 cases. The true figure is thought to be higher as many families have buried their dead in secret because they fear that they will be put into isolation wards.

Bruce Aylward, the WHO assistant director–general, said that if the world does not step up its response to the outbreak, "a lot more people will die".

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141015eaaf00099


News
Mission to West Africa will become Forces' biggest overseas deployment
Ben Farmer
746 words
15 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
7
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
BRITAIN'S military campaign to help defeat the Ebola outbreak will eclipse the shrinking operation in Afghanistan by next month to become the Armed Forces' biggest overseas deployment.

Michael Fallon, the Defence Secretary, said the UK had to act to help stop the spread of the disease, or it would tear through West Africa, then the rest of the world.

By the end of November about 750 British troops will be in Sierra Leone helping to set up medical centres and train staff to tackle the outbreak, which has officially killed more than 4,000 people, and quite possibly four times that number.

He said by then it would be the UK's "biggest deployment overseas" as it pulls back from its 13–year campaign in Afghanistan.

He added: "We can help save lives. We need to get the outbreak under control. Unless it's brought under control, it's going to spread across West Africa, into Europe and the UK."

A military vessel due to sail on Friday to West Africa with a crew of 380, including Marines and medics, was on a "vital mission" at the "front line of defending Britain", he said.

RFA Argus, a 28,000–ton casualty and transport ship, will set off from Falmouth with 300 pallets of aid, 55 vehicles and three Navy Merlin helicopters.

The ship will moor off Sierra Leone for as long as six months, giving logistical support for the British aid effort to build and equip hospitals treating victims of the disease.

Royal Marines will use landing boats to ferry aid and supplies around the country's coastline and rivers, while providing protection to the rest of the crew. The Merlin helicopters, usually used for hunting enemy submarines, will airlift supplies around the country.

Ebola patients will not be treated on the ship and its 100–bed sick bay will be reserved for British personnel who fall prone to other illnesses, or accidents.

But commanders on board said they had had to reassure personnel and their families they were not at high risk of contracting the disease. Troops on board will be screened for possible exposure every time they go ashore.

Capt David Eagles said: "Every Royal Marine going ashore will have a questionnaire to fill in when he gets back. "Question one is, 'Have you been in contact with the local population', and if a 'yes' comes against that, straight away alarm bells are ringing and he will be monitored very, very closely.

"He will come back on board, his temperature will be taken twice a day, the medics will be all over him and he will be well and truly monitored." If any symptoms of Ebola develop, he said "the level of scrutiny would increase 10–fold" and doctors would decide whether to transport the patient ashore to the British hospital in Kerry Town.

The ship's crew will be relieved after two or three months, but will not be allowed shore leave during that time. Capt Eagles said he was confident he could keep them safe. He said: "It's a very emotional topic and it is worrying for families, which is why we need to provide reassurance for our people.

"One or two of the ship's company have said their families aren't very happy, but that was last week before the training, now I think it's much more balanced.

"We try to reassure them the mission is safe, but it's not a sackable offence if they choose not to go."

Army engineers and medics are already in Sierra Leone, with aid workers, building treatment centres. The first is expected to be ready for patients by the end of this month.

Yesterday, 120 members of the ship's company were given a 90–minute briefing on Ebola from three medical experts inside the crew's canteen.

Dr Ruth Howlett–Shipley, the Navy's public health consultant, told the personnel: "We are doing everything we can to make sure that you go out safely and come back safely. To contract Ebola you have to have direct contact with someone who is ill with Ebola."

Surg Lt Dan Hawkins, 34, said: "The thing I am most worried about as the ship's doctor, is malaria."

'We try to reassure them the mission is safe, but it is not a sackable offence if they choose not to go'

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141015eaaf00097


Business
Gloom grips investors as few see any cause for cheer in global economy
Ben Martin
882 words
15 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
7
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Market report

PESSIMISM about the health of the global economy has reached its worst level for two years, according to a closely followed monthly survey of investors around the world.

The proportion of portfolio managers who said they expected the economy to strengthen in the coming year has dropped to a net 32pc from 54pc in September, Bank of America Merrill Lynch found, after polling 220 investors managing $640bn in assets earlier this month. Concern about the US Federal Reserve bringing its quantitative easing programme to an end, expected this month, was the cause of the shift, with just 18pc of investors saying that monetary policy is too stimulative, the lowest reading since August 2012.

The outlook for Europe is darker still, BoA said. Just 16pc of investors expect to see the region's economy strengthen in the next 12 months, down from a net 45pc just a month ago. As a defensive measure, fund managers have bolstered their cash positions, with levels rising to 4.9pc from 4.6pc.

Indeed, the worries identified by BoA, as well as the plunge in the price of oil, have driven the aggressive stock market sell–off in recent weeks and ensured it was another volatile session for equities yesterday. Hit by a tumble in US markets overnight ahead of the London open, the FTSE 100 fell as much as 1pc in morning trade, not helped by yet more weak data from Germany, the eurozone's biggest economy. The session was rescued, however, by better than expected results from Citigroup that spurred hopes the US earnings season would reassure jittery investors. As a result, the FTSE 100 finished up 26.44 points, or 0.4pc, at 6,392.68, and Wall Street was trading higher by the time London had closed.

International Airlines Group, the owner of British Airways, led Britain's benchmark index higher and rose 15½p, or 4.8pc, to 339.6p – the first time it had closed in positive territory since last Monday – after HSBC reassured clients that worries about the spread of Ebola were overdone. "We recognise that the Ebola epidemic is very serious in West Africa but we think it is unlikely to substantially impact air travel demand across IAG's network," analysts at the broker said. They upgraded IAG to "overweight" to account for the uplift the carrier will receive from falling fuel costs as the crude price slumps.

Oil shares, however, were inevitably pulled lower by the further weakness in crude, with Brent sliding below $87 a barrel. Tullow Oil lost 11p to 518½p and BP was down 5.3p at 426.65p. Gas group BG declined 15p to £10.25, despite "buy" advice from heavyweight broker Citigroup.

Staying with the resources sector, mining shares remained strong, continuing to benefit from Monday's better–than–expected trade data from China, the world's most voracious consumer of metals. Anglo American gained 35p to £14.23 and Rio Tinto added 73½p to £31.63½.

Elsewhere among the risers, AO World, unlike BG, did respond to a broker upgrade and finished up 12.3p to 166.3p, an 8pc jump. Shore Capital analyst Mike Stewart, who had been a bear of the online white goods retailer, decided that the shares had fallen far enough since the group was floated at 285p in February.

"The discrepancy between price and intrinsic value has not only narrowed but indeed disappeared," he advised clients, and lifted his recommendation to "hold". AO drew attention when its float valued it at a huge 72 times forecast underlying profits for 2015.

Rolls–Royce, too, was boosted by positive analyst comment and closed up 20½p at 957½p after Investec's Rami Myerson said investors should continue to buy into the engine–maker despite recent weakness in the share price.

Microchip designer Arm Holdings, 31p better at 853p, rebounded following two days of heavy falls. American peer Microchip Technology unnerved investors in the sector when it warned on Friday that it had experienced waning demand from China.

IQE, a maker of so–called "semiconductor wafers" used in wireless electronics, was lifted 2¼p to 14¾p, an 18pc surge, by director share purchases, which are usually taken as a sign of confidence. The chief executive, finance chief and chief operating officer have between them bought 3.3m shares at 12¾p apiece.

Africa–focused explorer Afren advanced 3.45p to 100.9p, after an independent review into unauthorised payments appeared to bring the episode to a close by resulting in a swathe of management dismissals. Still, RBC Capital Markets analysts cautioned that they expected "some reaction from the Nigerian authorities" over the matter.

It was also noted by the market that rival Nigerian explorer South Atlantic Petroleum (SAPetro) had lifted its Afren stake to 5.31pc. SAPetro is viewed by some as a potential suitor for Afren.

Earnings updates were an important driver of stock specific moves. Burberry, the luxury goods retailer, slid 54p to £14.25, having unsettled investors with a warning of a "more difficult external environment". Burberry shares were also hit by another profit warning from rival Mulberry, which itself tumbled 75½p to 675p.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141015eaaf0004p


Business
Zuckerberg gives $25m for Ebola fight
89 words
15 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
4
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
News Bulletin

Mark Zuckerberg, the billionaire founder of Facebook, has donated $25m (£15.7m) to a charity that seeks to stop the spread of deadly diseases, as efforts to stem Ebola accelerate. In a Facebook post to his 30m followers, Mr Zuckerberg said he had donated the money to the Centers for Disease Control Foundation as the Ebola epidemic reaches a "critical turning point". The technology entrepreneur said the money will help people to set up care centres and train local staff.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141015eaaf0003r


NEWS
Ebola cases could hit 10,000 a week by December, WHO states
By Philip Sherwell New York
698 words
15 October 2014
01:56 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
World Health Organisation gives grim new assessment of Ebola crisis, with fatality rate now estimated at 70 per cent

West Africa could see up to 10,000 new Ebola cases a week within two months, the World Health Organisation has revealed in a grim new assessment of the crisis.

The death rate has also risen to 70 per cent for people who contract the lethal virus, according to figures released by the United Nations global health agency.

The WHO had previously estimated the death rate to be about 50 per cent per cent, already a high figure for a disease.

The agency increased its Ebola death toll tally to 4,447 people on Tuesday, nearly all of them in West Africa, from 8,914 cases. The true figure is thought to be significantly higher as many relatives have not reported infections and buried their dead because they fear that they will be put into isolation wards.

There have been about 1,000 new cases – confirmed, suspected and probable – per week during the last four weeks. Bruce Aylward, the WHO assistant director-general, said that if the world does not step up its response to the outbreak, "a lot more people will die" and there will be a huge need to deal with the spiralling numbers of cases.

The startling new figures give fresh urgency to calls for greater resources to tackle the crisis. Speaking at a news conference in Johannesburg, the head of Medecins Sans Frontieres in South Africa, Sharon Ekambaram, lamented that medical workers in the region have received inadequate assistance from the international community.

"Where is WHO Africa? Where is the African Union?" said Dr Ekambaram who worked in Sierra Leone in August and September. "We've all heard their promises in the media, but have seen very little on the ground."

As the new assessment was made public, Mark Zuckerberg[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/mark-zuckerberg/], the billionaire founder of Facebook, announced that he and his wife Priscilla Chan were donating $25 million to the Centre for Disease Control Foundation[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/11162106/Mark-Zuckerberg-donates-25m-to-fight-Ebola.html] in the to help fight Ebola.

"We need to get Ebola under control in the near term so that it doesn't spread further ... that we end up fighting for decades at large scale, like HIV or polio," they said in a statement.

Dr Aylward said the 70 per cent death rate made Ebola "a high mortality disease" in any circumstance. The WHO target is to isolate 70 per cent of cases and provide treatment as soon as possible over the next two month in an effort to reverse outbreak, he said.

"It would be horrifically unethical to say that we're just going to isolate people," he said, noting that new strategies like handing out protective equipment to families and setting up very basic clinics was a priority.

Sierra Leone, Guinea and Liberia have suffered the brunt of the outbreak and Dr Aylward said WHO was very concerned about the continued spread of the disease in their densely-populated capital cities of Freetown, Conakry and Monrovia.

He said there was no evidence any countries were hiding Ebola cases but gave warning that countries bordering the affected area, including Ivory Coast, Mali and Guinea-Bissau, were at high risk of importing the disease.

"This is not a virus that's easy to suppress or hide," he said, noting there hasn't been a huge amount of international spreading so far. "I don't expect this virus to just go anywhere. There is exit screening in place and sick people won't be moving."

In Germany, an unnamed 56-year-old male UN medical worker infected with Ebola in Liberia died after four days in hospital in Leipzig. The man tested positive for the disease on Oct 6, prompting Liberia's UN peacekeeping mission to place 41 other staff members under "close medical observation."

The hospital's chief executive, Dr Iris Minde, said at the time there was no risk of infection for other people, since he was kept in a secure isolation ward specially equipped with negative pressure rooms that are hermetically sealed.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141014eaae00490


NEWS
Inside the Ebola ship RFA Argus
119 words
15 October 2014
01:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
RFA Argus is a medical ship with a fully-equipped 100-bed hospital on board and it is being prepared to be sent to Sierra Leone. It is being sent to West Africa to help in the efforts to contain the Ebola outbreak. These pictures show the inside of the ship at its home in Falmouth.

RFA Argus is a medical ship with a fully-equipped 100-bed hospital on board and it is being prepared to be sent to Sierra Leone. It is being sent to West Africa to help in the efforts to contain the Ebola outbreak. These pictures show the inside of the ship at its home in Falmouth.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141015eaaf000p1


NEWS
Fiona Bruce: BBC make-up artists worried about Ebola risk
By Keith Perry
258 words
14 October 2014
08:26 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Fiona Bruce said she would not report from an Ebola-hit country and the BBC could not compel her to do so

Fiona Bruce has disclosed that make-up artists at the BBC have raised fears about working so closely with guests from Ebola-stricken African countries.

The BBC broadcaster said that the African health crisis has caused concerns among staff within the newsroom.

Speaking on Monday night at the Wellbeing For Women charity event at Fortnum and Mason she said: “At the BBC we are having conversations.

"We have got make up artists who are saying, “Hang on these people are just turning up in our chair”.

“They said, ‘They have just come in from Guinea? Do I want to be touching them?’ Which is not unreasonable.”

When asked if she would report from an Ebola-stricken country, Ms Bruce replied: “No, I would not. They could not compel me.

"They are not monsters. They can’t. We will get some cases here. It is inevitable.”

The BBC have confirmed that some guests who have come into contact with the contagious disease will be interviewed over the phone.

A BBC spokesman said: “There is no ban in place and people who do not have symptoms are allowed into BBC buildings.

"Where people have been exposed to the virus but have not registered with public health authorities we recommend interviews take place by telephone or video phone.

"We’re working with Public Health England.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141015eaaf00001


NEWS
UN employee dies of Ebola in hospital in Germany
By Harriet Alexander
372 words
14 October 2014
09:33 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A UN employee who contracted Ebola in West Africa has died in hospital in Germany

A man who caught the Ebola [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] virus while working for the United Nations in Liberia has died in hospital in Germany [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/germany/] .

The unnamed doctor from Sudan [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/sudan/]is the second person from the mission – known as UNMIL – to die from the disease, after a colleague died on September 25.

The Sudanese victim was transferred from Liberia to the St. Georg Clinic in the city of Leipzig, 125 miles southeast of Berlin. The hospital is one of seven health facilities in Germany with the capability to treating highly infectious patients in isolation.

"The patient sick with Ebola fever died during the night in St. Georg Clinic in Leipzig," the hospital said in a statement.

"Despite intensive medical measures and maximum efforts by the medical team, the 56-year-old UN employee succumbed to the serious infectious disease."

Two other Ebola patients have also been flown to Germany for treatment: a World Health Organization (WHO) employee, who had worked in Sierra Leone, was brought to Hamburg, and was successfully treated and released him last week. A second patient, a Ugandan doctor and WHO worker, also contracted the virus in Sierra Leone but remains in hospital in Sierra Leone.

But on Tuesday morning it was announced that the UNMIL employee had died. It was not clear whether he was a soldier or a civilian.

The Liberia News website reported that 41 other members of UNMIL [http://www.liberianewsagency.org/pagesnews.php?nid=2917] had been placed under observation, including 20 of their soldiers.

The UN mission has been active in Liberia since September 2003 [http://unmil.unmissions.org/Default.aspx?tabid=3934&language=en-US], in the aftermath of the country's civil war which killed up to 250,000 people.

UNMIL initially consisted of 15,000 personnel, including military observers and staff officers, and UN police officers who were tasked with maintaining law and order throughout the fragile state.

Currently there are 9,387 UN staff members in the country, and the UN had been looking to reduce its presence in the region.

The majority of UNMIL staff are from Bangladesh or Pakistan, but other countries including China, Nigeria, Ghana and Nepal also currently contribute personnel.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141014eaae001me


FINANCE
Mark Zuckerberg donates $25m to fight Ebola
By Elizabeth Anderson Business Reporter
278 words
14 October 2014
12:56 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Facebook founder says the Ebola epidemic is at a 'critical turning point'

Mark Zuckerberg, the billionaire founder of Facebook, has donated $25m (£15.7m) to a charity that seeks to stop the spread of deadly diseases as efforts to stem Ebola accelerate.

In a Facebook post to his 30m followers, Mr Zuckerberg said he had donated the money to the Centers for Disease Control Foundation as the Ebola epidemic reaches a "critical turning point".

The 30-year-old technology entrepreneur said: “The Ebola epidemic is at a critical turning point. It has infected 8,400 people so far, but it is spreading very quickly and projections suggest it could infect 1 million people or more over the next several months if not addressed.”

Post [https://www.facebook.com/zuck/posts/10101696761533081] by Mark Zuckerberg [https://www.facebook.com/zuck] .

He said the money will help people on the ground setting up care centers, training local staff, identifying Ebola cases "and much more".

The World Health Organisation says there have been 1,000 new cases of Ebola a week, and that could rise to as many as 10,000 a week within two months.

The disease has killed more than 4,000 people in Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia and claimed its first victims in the west [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11160790/UN-employee-dies-of-Ebola-in-hospital-in-Germany.html] this week.

Mr Zuckerberg is a keen philanthropist, and was the US's biggest charity donor in 2013, [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/facebook/10545680/Mark-Zuckerberg-is-Americas-biggest-philanthropist.html] according to a list of publicly-available donations. With his wife Priscilla Chan, he gave $990m (£598m) to California charity the Silicon Valley Community Foundation in December.

The Centers for Disease Control Foundation's website [http://www.cdcfoundation.org/ebola-outbreak] crashed soon after Mr Zuckerberg made the announcement.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141014eaae003s8


FINANCE
Luxury brands under pressure from weakening market
By Graham Ruddick Retail Editor
391 words
14 October 2014
06:12 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Burberry and Mulberry warn of tough luxury market, sending shares falling

The health of two of Britain’s leading luxury brands was in focus on Tuesday after Burberry and Mulberry warned they are facing tough trading conditions.

Shares in Mulberry tumbled by more than 10pc after the luxury handbag maker – which is reeling from a failed attempt to move upmarket – warned that profits for the year will be “significantly below expectations”, prompting analysts to slash their profits by more than half.

In contrast, Burberry reported a 7pc increase in half-year revenues to £1.1bn, but investors were spooked by the company warning of a “more difficult external environment”.

Carol Fairweather, Burberry's finance director, warned that the luxury market was slowing and that there were “geopolitical uncertainties”, notably the crisis in Ukraine, protests in Hong Kong, and an outbreak of Ebola.

Shares in Burberry fell by 54p, or 4pc, to £14.25 following the trading update. This was despite Christopher Bailey, Burberry’s chief creative and chief executive officer, hailing a “strong” performance and claiming the company has “never been better prepared internally for the all-important festive period”.

The global luxury sector is facing a slowdown according to research by Bain, the consultancy.

In its respected annual study, Bain said that luxury sales will grow by 2pc this year to €223bn (£140bn), compared to 3pc growth in 2013 and 10pc in 2012.

Bain said the market was being affected by political uncertainties, but also cold weather in North America and weak consumer confidence in Europe. Chinese consumers remain the biggest spenders overall, although their growth in spending is slowing down as anti-corruption measures kick in.

Godfrey Davis, the executive chairman of Mulberry, insisted the company is making progress with a turnaround plan but is battling against a weakening market. “These are not the easiest of times,” Mr Davis said.

Analysts at Barclays said Mulberry is facing a “painful transition” but that Burberry had delivered a “good performance in a tough market”. Burberry has also been impacted by the strengthening of the pound against a collection of foreign currencies. On a constant currency basis, Burberry sales were up 14pc. This included a 10pc rise in like-for-like sales, driven by Asia-Pacific and the Americas.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141014eaae004jz


FINANCE
Seven reasons why the world’s stock markets are facing intense turbulence
By Allister Heath
1162 words
14 October 2014
06:08 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The continued market sell-off is due to a combination of different events making investors worry

What, exactly, is going on in the financial markets? The FTSE 100 crept up on Monday but at just 6,366.24 remains terribly depressed. Stock markets around the world have lost a substantial amount of value in recent days, with gains for the year wiped out and more. The commodities and fixed income markets are also all over the place and advisers are reporting that several flotations on the London market have been cancelled or delayed indefinitely.

The good news is that the UK economy is not about to tip into recession but it is clear that the international outlook has worsened significantly. Investors are paying the price for seven major developments in the global economy, some predicted and others not.

1. Germany feeling eurozone slowdown

The first and most immediate worry is the ongoing slowdown in the eurozone, led by its supposedly most powerful economies. Capital Economics highlights the weakness of Germany’s industrial production and trade data and is predicting that there is a good chance that German GDP shrank again in the third quarter. The situation is grim, exacerbated by Russian sanctions (the US ones being much tougher on Germany than the EU ones) and weak demand for exports.

The world today is looking very different from where it was earlier in the cycle, when Germany was recovering and the UK was struggling. That was an aberration; we are now back to a more normal pattern, with Germany in long-term decline. As the economist Philippe Legrain points out in a brilliant essay[http://www.capx.co/germanys-sickly-economy/] for CapX, Germany’s GDP growth since 2000 has averaged just 1.1pc a year, a far weaker performance than other rich countries. Its share of world exports is down from 9.1pc in 2007 to 8pc last year and investment has slumped from 22.3pc of GDP a few years back to 17pc in 2013. The eurozone’s slowdown and Germany’s decline are bad news for everybody, of course, including the UK.

2. Ebola

The second shock is the Ebola epidemic, described by the World Health Organisation as the worst health emergency of modern times. It is principally a heart-breaking humanitarian catastrophe but it is also beginning to unsettle the global economy. Fewer people are travelling by plane from key locations, trade and business routes are being badly affected, the price of commodities such as cocoa is increasing and the stock price of many companies has tanked.

At this stage, all predictions for the eventual economic impact should be taken with a big pinch of salt. Previous pandemics, such as Sars, had a large impact in places such as Hong Kong but the economic effects dissipated rapidly. What we do know is that, at the very least, the global economy will be impacted for the remainder of this year and the hit to global financial markets is thus perfectly rational.

3. Oil

The third big change is the sliding price of oil, which some are taking, perhaps unfairly, as signalling a global slowdown. The reality is more nuanced: oil prices are down as a result of increased supply in Russia and the US, and reduced demand from slowing economies.

In any case, lower prices are great news for net oil consumers – those who import a lot – and bad news for net producers – those who export more than they buy from abroad. The price of oil is like a tax for the former group of nations, which now includes the UK as a result of the North Sea’s decline, and akin to a transfer for the latter, which is why Venezuela is calling a meeting of Opec ministers to try and stem crude’s bear market.

The hit to Gulf nations’ coffers means reduced cash to buy exports and to invest in real or financial assets around the world. The slump in oil prices is also bad for shale: it can only be exploited profitably when oil prices are relatively elevated. Needless to say, oil companies, including those listed in London, have seen their share prices fall, pushing down overall indices. On balance, however, and in the short term, the reduced price of oil is good for the British economy.

4. Fed turning off taps

The next, ongoing worry, is the gradual ending of QE in the US. This isn’t new, and other economies, including Japan, are still creating ultra-cheap money. But markets always want more and their bottomless appetite for loose money isn’t being satisfied. While there was too much QE in the US and UK – and traders and investors should be ashamed of their addiction to freshly-created money – they are right to want more from the European Central Bank.

The eurozone is the one part of the world where additional injections of liquidity would be good news – not for the whole region but for various struggling parts of it. Yet the Frankfurt-based central bank is stuck: it has gone as far as it can politically but that isn’t enough.

Many forecasters are predicting regional deflation in the medium-term – with prices falling for the wrong reasons, upping the real value of debt and creating all sorts of other problems.

5. Emerging markets

It is not just the eurozone that is slowing: China has also underperformed, as have some other emerging markets.

The Chinese economy may have grown by less than 7pc in the third quarter, according to Capital Economics – bad by that country’s usually stellar standards – but the market reaction is more a case of investors finally noticing that the new normal in emerging markets is for slightly less-strong growth than used to be the case.

6. Europe continues to waver

Much longer term, there is a growing sense that analysts were wrong to believe that the ticking time-bomb under the European project had been defused. While periphery countries such as Greece are no longer facing the prospect of imminent collapse, the spotlight has moved to much larger, supposedly too-big-to-fail economies.

France and Italy in particular are under the spotlight: it is hard to see either nation ever getting its act together. France is facing an intractable political crisis, with the demagogic Marine Le Pen rising seemingly unstoppably in the opinion polls. Where that leads is anybody’s guess.

7. Middle East conflict

Last but not least, the conflict in the Middle East is making everybody jittery. Risk-aversion has gone up, and markets are pricing in a greater chance of terrorism and chaos.

That is hardly the main, or even a central reason for the slump in stock markets, but it certainly isn’t helping sentiment. The second phase of the post-crisis recovery is well and truly over.

allister.heath@telegraph.co.uk

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141014eaae005pl


NEWS
Entrepreneur tries to sell Ebola.com for $150,000
By Nick Allen Los Angeles
294 words
14 October 2014
04:02 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A Las Vegas company that owns the domain name Ebola.com defends its right to make money by selling the internet address

An entrepreneur is controversially trying to sell the internet address Ebola.com for $150,000 (£94,000).

Jon Schultz, president of Blue String Ventures in Las Vegas, bought the domain name in 2008 for $13,500.

He also owns Fukushima.com, H1N1.com and BirdFlu.com.

Mr Schultz has been criticised for trying to make money during the Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] outbreak, which has killed 4,000 people in West Africa, and the Washington Post described him as a "merchant of disease"[http://www.washingtonpost.com/news/morning-mix/wp/2014/10/14/the-merchant-of-disease-who-wants-six-figures-for-ebola-com/] .

The businessman defended his proposed sale, saying the price was "reasonable".

He added that people visiting the domain name are currently given the option to donate to Doctors Without Borders.

Mr Schultz told CNBC[http://www.cnbc.com/id/102073711] : "$150,000 is not a tremendous amount for a premium domain. The fact that this is a top news story makes it very reasonable, in our opinion, as many domains sell for seven figures.

"Just this year Whisky.com sold for $3.1 million and MI.com sold for $3.6 million."

He added: "Having seen the movie Outbreak I was entranced by the subject (of Ebola) and couldn't resist buying the domain.

"We've had many inquiries on the domain over the years. Ebola.com would be a great domain for a pharmaceutical company working on a vaccine or cure, a company selling pandemic or disaster-preparedness supplies, or a medical company wishing to provide information and advertise services."

Pharmaceutical companies already own domain names related to widespread conditions including Arthritis.com owned by Pfizer, and Diabetes.com owned by GlaxoSmithKline.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141014eaae004xu


NEWS
Inside RFA Argus - the British ship on course to battle Ebola
By Telegraph Video video by Julian Simmonds
214 words
14 October 2014
02:07 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Royal Marine personnel prepare RFA Argus at an MoD facility in Falmouth for departure to Sierra Leone to help with the effort to combat Ebola

As the Ebola virus continues it's rampant spread across the globe, the UK is stepping up efforts to tackle the infection in West Africa.

RFA Argus, a medical ship with a fully-equipped 100-bed hospital on board, is to be sent to Sierra Leone, along with three Merlin helicopters.

The decision to send RFA Argus to one of the worst hit of the African countries comes as Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond declared Ebola as " an unprecedented threat that knows no borders[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11159632/Jeremy-Hunt-announces-ebola-screening-for-travellers-at-Heathrow.html] ".

He said: "We have to get ahead of this disease[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/], but if we get ahead of it, if we rise to the challenge, we can contain it and beat it. We know how to do this, it is not complicated to do, it just requires a large focus of resource and effort to deliver it."

The Telegraph offers an exclusive look inside the medical ship, as Captain David Eagles explains the role RFA Argus will play in the battle against Ebola once it moors in Sierra Leone.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141014eaae00364


Ebola crisis: the questionnaire
46 words
14 October 2014
02:03 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The Department of Health has issued the questionnaire that passengers travelling to Britain from West Africa will face at the border.

The Department of Health has issued the questionnaire that passengers travelling to Britain from West Africa will face at the border.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141014eaae00467


NEWS
Fears for 70 hospital workers who cared for America's 'patient zero'
By Nick Allen Los Angeles
458 words
14 October 2014
10:53 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
After Texas nurse Nina Pham is diagnosed with Ebola it emerges she was just one of 70 hospital staff who looked after America's "patient zero" Thomas Eric Duncan, raising fears of further cases among healthcare workers

Around 70 doctors and nurses were looking after Thomas Eric Duncan, the first person to die from Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] in America, raising fears it could have spread to more healthcare workers.

Nurse Nina Pham, 26, was confirmed to have caught the virus while treating Duncan at in Dallas, Texas, and on Tuesday there was growing concern for the remaining 70 or so members of his medical team.

At least nine members of hospital staff went in and out of the room in Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital where Duncan, 42, was being isolated when he was at his sickest on the day before he died.

Dr Tom Frieden, director of the Centers for Diseases Control and Prevention (CDC), said: "If this one individual was infected, and we don't know how, within the isolation unit then it is possible that other individuals could have been infected as well.

"We need to consider the possibility there could be additional cases, particularly among the healthcare workers who cared for the patient when he was so ill.

"We're concerned and unfortunately would not be surprised if we did see additional cases among healthcare workers."

The risk of further cases emerged as Miss Pham received a potentially life saving blood transfusion from Dr Kent Brantly, an American who contracted Ebola in West Africa but survived after treatment in the US.

He has already given blood transfusions to two other patients, Dr Rick Sacra and British-American TV cameraman Ashoka Mukpo. Doctors hope that Dr Brantly's blood will have developed antibodies helping to protect against Ebola.

Following the infection of Miss Pham, the CDC said the number of people in Dallas being monitored for any signs of symptoms would have to be increased.

They had previously been monitoring 48 people who may have had contact with Duncan while he was contagious.

The hospital staff who treated him were equipped with face masks, hazmat suits, and other protective clothing, and it is not known how Miss Pham contracted the virus.

The news came as a top US health official said an Ebola vaccine and drugs to treat the disease would probably have already been discovered if medical research funding had not suffered a series of budget cuts.

Francis Collins, the head of the National Institutes of Health, said that agency had been working on Ebola vaccines since 2001, but that the research has been held up by spending cuts[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11159799/World-would-probably-already-have-cure-for-Ebola-if-it-were-not-for-spending-cuts-says-top-US-official.html] .

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141014eaae00108


NEWS
Ebola crisis: air passengers quizzed about dead bodies and faith healers
788 words
14 October 2014
10:40 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Heathrow airport began enhanced screening of passengers travelling from West Africa today, but some travellers branded checks 'a complete joke'

Air passengers en route to Britain from Ebola infected countries will be questioned about whether they have come into contact with dead bodies or traditional healers, it emerged today.

The Department of Health issued the questionnaire which travellers from Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia will be asked to fill in when the arrive at Heathrow, Gatwick and Eurostar terminals.

Enhanced screening, which includes temperature checks, was brought in at Heathrow this morning and will be rolled out more fully next week.

Passengers will be asked if they have come into contact with anyone suspected of having Ebola and whether they have cared for someone with a severe illness. They will also be asked to reveal if they have come into contact with dead bodies, attended a funeral or visited a traditional healer or hospital.

After filling in the form, travellers would be 'free to go' or ' referred for further assessment'. Health officials will then decide if they are low or high risk, and whether they should be referred to teams from Public Health England for isolation.

However passengers arriving at Heathrow said the process had already begun to break down.

Sorious Samura, 51, a documentary maker who had been making a film about Ebola said he was never questioned about where he had flown in from and only volunteered he had travelled from Liberia as he arrived at passport control.

He was handed the questionnaire and had his temperature taken before he was allowed to go on his way without any advice what to do should he suddenly feel ill.

Mr Samura arrived at the London hub this morning from a connecting flight from Brussels.

He said: "Last week I heard that there was going to be more serious checks at UK airports.

"Having seen it firsthand I think it was a bit lax here. To be honest it was a complete joke.

"You meet the first set of staff at passport control. They warned us that the checks might have been more detailed."

Mr Samura added: "Nobody made me declare I had come back from Liberia. I only got the questionnaire because I was responsible and decided to get tested.

He had been making the film for Al Jazeera and added his colleague had been given a phone number and said: "I think it was a number he could call if he had any problems. But I didn't get given anything.

"I think the screening is a bit all over the place at the moment. If they want to do it they should be thorough."

New posters were also revealed , which outline symptoms and give details of where to get help. They will be placed at airports and ports across the country.

Experts have warned that the checks would cause widespread disruption and fail to pick up the virus. However Heathrow said only 1,000 passengers a month would be impacted out of the 190,000 that travel through the aiport each day.

A Heathrow spokesperson said:“The welfare of our passengers and colleagues is always our main priority and we are working with Government to support the implementation of targeted screening measures as announced by the Health Secretary today.

"We would like to reassure passengers that the Government assesses the risk of a traveller contracting Ebola to be low. We would encourage anybody with individual questions or concerns to refer to guidance from Public Health England and the Foreign Office.”

Professor David Evans, an expert on the disease at the University of Warwick, said the screening programme was "a blunt instrument" likely to spread unnecessary alarm among the public.

"I just don't think it will work," he said.

"For instance, I heard some statistics about a screening programme of exiting passengers in West Africa.

"Out of 36, OOO people, 77 had temperatures, and not one turned out to be Ebola. I would be very surprised if the programme at Heathrow and other UK airports and train stations picks up any case coming into the UK. It is a blunt instrument."

Prof Evans backed passengers being handed the health questionnaire cliaming would raise awareness and provide information for them if they do end up developing any Ebola type symptoms.

But he said: "Screening passengers on arrival serves no practical use. The only way you could do it would be to give everyone a blood test, and that is just not going to happen.

"It would not be feasible, because you would be waiting 24 hours, or more, to get out of the airport."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141014eaae002mq


NEWS
Texas Ebola nurse named as Nina Pham
By Philip Sherwell
626 words
14 October 2014
09:35 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The first American to contract Ebola in the US identified by her family as Nina Pham, 26, from Texas. Doctors described the nurse's condition as “clinically stable”

The first American to contract Ebola in the US has been identified by her family as Nina Pham, 26, from Fort Worth, Texas. Doctors described the nurse’s condition as "clinically stable".

Her relatives released a photograph showing her holding her beloved King Charles Spaniel.

The authorities said the pet would be quarantined but not put down, a contrast to the decision by Spanish officials to destroy the dog of an infected nurse[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11150085/Spanish-Ebola-nurses-dog-put-down-despite-campaign.html] .

Miss Pham is the daughter of Vietnamese immigrants and was described by friends as devoted to the nursing career that she began in 2010 after graduating from Texas Christian university.

She was part of the medical team that treated Thomas Eric Duncan, the Liberian man who brought the virus to America and died in Dallas Presbyterian Hospital last week.

Disease investigators are looking into how she contracted the disease despite wearing protective clothing during her time in the presence of Mr Duncan.

She is believed to have had contact with "one and only one" person during the period when she was "potentially, although likely not" infectious, said Dr Thomas Frieden, head of the Centres for Disease Control and Protection (CDC).

That individual was being monitored but has as shown no symptoms of the virus, he said.

Hazardous material (Hazmat) teams were deployed to clean up and fumigate her flat and public areas in the building over the weekend.

Friends told The Dallas Morning News that Miss Pham was a devout Roman Catholic and a compassionate nurse who was committed to helping others.

“The family is very dedicated and go out of their way to help people,” said Tom Ha, who knows the family from Our Lady of Fatima Catholic Church in East Fort Worth. “I expect, with the big heart that she has, she went beyond what she was supposed to do to help anyone in need.”

Another friend told the newspaper: “When she got accepted into nursing school, she was really excited about it. Her mom would tell her how it’s really hard and a bunch of her friends quit doing it because it was so stressful. But she was like, ‘This is what I want to do’.”

Hung Le, who is president and counsellor at Our Lady of Fatima, said that parishioners were praying for the young woman, whom many of them have known since she was a child.

“Our most important concern as a church is to help the family as they are coping with this,” Mr Le said. “As a parish, we are praying for them.”

About 70 staff members at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital, including Miss Pham,l were involved in the care of Thomas Eric Duncan, the Liberian man who died of Ebola last week.

The size of the medical team suggests that many other people could have been exposed to the virus during Duncan's time in an isolation unit, the Associated Press reported.

Meanwhile, in Kansas, a person who recently worked on a medical boat off the western coast of Africa was placed in isolation and tested for Ebola after coming in to hospital suffering from a high fever and other possible symptoms.

The University of Kansas Hospital said that the patient was considered to be at a "low to moderate risk" and that many other diseases matched the symptoms, but doctors could not rule out possibility of Ebola.

Hospital staff met the patient wearing protection equipment. Staff treating this patient will not care for any others until the diagnosis and treatment plans are complete.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141013eaad005em


NEWS
Ebola crisis: 'huge disruption' expected at Heathrow as screening begins
By Sarah Knapton Science Editor
754 words
14 October 2014
09:32 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Experts have warned that enhanced screening is unlikely to stop Ebola arriving in Britain and will bring 'huge disruption' to travellers

Ebola screening will begin at Heathrow airport on Tuesday amid claims it will cause ‘huge disruption’ to travellers and do little to stop the disease.

Jeremy Hunt, the Health Secretary, announced that passengers arriving on major routes from Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia would face temperature checks and questions about their movements.

Last week Public Health England ruled out such measures claiming it would impact ‘huge numbers of low risk people.’

But, addressing the House of Commons, Mr Hunt said that advice from medical experts had changed and warned that Ebola would be in Britain by Christmas.

Enhanced screening will also be implemented at Gatwick and Eurostar Terminals next week.

Mr Hunt said that 89 per cent of people travelling to Britain from the affected region would be checked, but admitted one in 10 taking indirect routes would slip through screening.

He told MPs it was "likely" that Ebola will be seen in the UK and a "handful" of cases could be confirmed in the next three months.

"This Government's first priority is the safety of the British people,” he said.

However health experts questioned whether the enhanced screening would prevent the disease.

Dr Ron Behrens, from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said the benefit of airport screening would be "very small", while there would be disruption to "large numbers of people".

"It appears not to be a scientific decision but a political one," he said.

Dr Ben Neuman, a virologist at the University of Reading, warned that the screening would clash with the beginning of the flu season.

“In the early stages, Ebola can be indistinguishable from the flu, but it can also have aspects of other winter viruses like colds and norovirus," he said.

“These diseases usually develop differently over a few days, but in a situation where a screener only gets one chance to decide whether a passenger is an Ebola risk, other winter diseases will probably be mistaken for Ebola.

“It would not surprise me if airport screening measures mainly caught unfortunate passengers with seasonal ailments who were unlucky enough to have recently been to Africa.”

Prof Derek Macallan, professor of infectious diseases and medicine at St George's University of London, also agreed that airport screening for Ebola would prove "really difficult"

However he added: "If it raises awareness for people with fevers who have travelled abroad to seek medical advice, then it can only be a good thing."

The outbreak in West Africa shows no signs of slowing and measures to screen passengers could be in place for many months. The disease has already claimed 4,033 lives, and a further 8,399 across seven countries are believed to be infected.

The World Health Organisation (WHO) has warned the epidemic is the "most severe acute health emergency in modern times", with cases doubling every three to four weeks.

Mr Hunt said plans were in place should there be a need to "surge" bed capacity to treat Ebola cases. This would include beds in Newcastle, Liverpool and Sheffield, bringing the total to 26.

Call handlers on the NHS's 111 service are also poised to question anyone ringing up with possible symptoms of the disease about their recent travel history to see if they have been to west Africa.

Whitehall's Cobra emergency committee will meet tomorrow (weds), "to test how resilient the structures are between the constituent parts of the United Kingdom", Mr Hunt told MPs.

David Cameron also insisted "vigorous steps" were being taken to prevent Ebola reaching the UK and defended screening.

The Prime Minister said Britain was doing more than almost any other country to help solve the crisis in west Africa.

Britain's latest Ebola aid flight delivering beds, personal protection suits, tents and 10 vehicles landed in Freetown, Sierra Leone yesterday.

Aid delivered so far includes ambulances, water tanks, incinerators for disposing of clothing and other materials, generators and personal protection equipment.

The United States announced a Texas hospital worker who was in contact with Ebola victim Thomas Eric Duncan has become the first person to contract the infection within the country.

Officials in Dallas said there had been been a breach of protocol that led to the unnamed woman becoming infected after she wore full protective gear while treating Mr Duncan.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141013eaad0063n


NEWS
Will airport screening for Ebola actually work?
By Tom Chivers
661 words
14 October 2014
09:20 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Passengers arriving at Heathrow, Gatwick and the Eurostar terminals will be screened for Ebola symptoms. Will it help protect Britain from the disease?

Ebola panic is well under way. The disease, which has killed more than 4,000 people in Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia, has claimed its first victims in the West[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11160790/UN-employee-dies-of-Ebola-in-hospital-in-Germany.html], and Jeremy Hunt, the Health Secretary, has compared its spread to that of the HIV virus[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11159238/Ebola-crisis-disease-will-be-in-Britain-by-Christmas-warns-Jeremy-Hunt.html] .

As the public grows more nervous, the British government - among others - has announced that it is to begin screening passengers at Gatwick, Heathrow and the Eurostar terminal. But will it do any good?

• The screening will be necessarily incomplete

No flights arrive in Britain directly from the west African countries affected by the Ebola outbreak; instead, screening will concentrate on passengers arriving from those countries via Europe. Most of them will come through Gatwick, Heathrow and Eurostar, but not all: about one person in 10 will come in by other routes. Of course, if the screening system is effective, a 90 per cent reduction in the risk of transmission is still positive.

• The disease is very difficult to screen for

Ebola, in its late stages, is fairly distinctive: haemorrhagic fevers, as the name suggests, present with bleeding from eyes, ears, anus and elsewhere. But early on, its symptoms are generic: fever, sneezing, vomiting. It can easily be mistaken for flu or other common illnesses. The blood tests that could identify the disease with greater certainty take several hours, and would not be practical as a standard procedure even if airports had the capacity. Instead, passengers who have been in high-risk areas may face assessment by medical staff, although exactly what this entails is not yet clear. Dr Ben Neuman, a virologist at the University of Reading, told this paper[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11160038/Ebola-crisis-huge-disruption-expected-at-Heathrow-as-screening-begins.html] that “It would not surprise me if airport screening measures mainly caught unfortunate passengers with seasonal ailments who were unlucky enough to have recently been to Africa.”

• Ebola is not very infectious

The actual risk to passengers sharing a plane with someone who has Ebola is very, very low. The disease is not infectious until it is symptomatic, and once it is symptomatic most patients will be too unwell to travel. And, importantly, it doesn't spread very easily from person to person. “It’s not an airborne virus," Prof John Oxford, a virologist at the University of London, told me[http://blogs.telegraph.co.uk/news/tomchiversscience/100281820/the-curse-of-ebola/] . "You need to get close to fluids, such as blood or vomit.”

• The virus is easily destroyed by hand-washing

Ebola is a "filovirus", a long, slender, fragile thing which is destroyed by simple washing with soap and water. Therefore, even if some cases do make it to this country, they are unlikely to spread far: the greatest risk is to healthcare workers who have physical contact with the patient, and with modern medical hygiene techniques, that risk is minimal. Ebola is very, very unlikely, by its very nature, to become an epidemic in a Western country.

• The best weapon against it is public education

Nigeria is only a few days from being declared Ebola-free - it will have managed six weeks without a single new case in the country. This is a remarkable achievement, given how many transport links it has with the affected countries. The main driver appears to have been an informed public, which is aware of the importance of hygiene and reducing risk. This is where screening could be useful: Prof David Evans, a virologist at the University of Warwick, says that while testing passengers is "unlikely to detect symptomatic cases" as they arrive in this country, "the introduction of inbound passenger testing will both raise awareness and provide information that should ensure that passengers who subsequently develop symptoms can rapidly seek medical advice and, if needed, treatment." The measures are, therefore, sensible, "primarily because they raise awareness of the disease in travellers and their contacts."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141014eaae002ml


FINANCE
FTSE 100 resumes sell-off after late US slump
By Ben Martin
425 words
14 October 2014
08:05 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A late drop on Wall Street has dragged the FTSE 100 to its lowest level since July last year

The FTSE 100 resumed its slide on Tuesday after a late slump on Wall Street sparked another wave of stock market selling in London.

The benchmark index of British companies, which on Monday rose for the first time in a week[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/markets/marketreport/11160015/Market-report-Mining-rally-boosts-FTSE-100.html], fell 42 points to 6323 - a 0.7pc loss that took the index to its lowest level since July last year.

Sentiment was hit by a sell-off in America late last night, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropping sharply towards the end of the US trading session to close down 223 points, or 1.4pc, at 16,321.07.

The S&P 500 suffered a similar capitulation and finished down 31.39 points at 1,874.74, a 1.7pc drop.

Growing fears about slowing global growth, the sharp drop in Brent crude to $88 a barrel, the spread of Ebola and geopolitical risk have combined in recent weeks to spark a global rout in equities.

The imminent end of the US Federal Reserve's economy-boosting quantitative easing measures has also unsettled investors, although there was no specific trigger for last night's US plunge, according to Deutsche Bank strategist Jim Reid.

"There weren’t any specific drivers behind the move so sentiment was likely weighed again by uncertainties around global growth - or the lack of it - and how life will look like without the Fed’s QE," he said.

The S&P 500 has also fallen well below its 200 day moving average, which is "a level that is closely watched by market technicians", Mr Reid added.

The London index has tumbled more than 7pc since September 19, when the FTSE 100 managed a brief rally after Scotland voted to stay in the Union.

In the US, the Vix, the so-called “fear index” that measures volatility, last night jumped 16pc to a two-year high. [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/markets/11160487/Stock-market-fear-index-spikes-as-clouds-gather-over-world-economy.html]

Slowing growth in Germany, the eurozone's biggest economy, is a key concern for investors. A survey of German investor confidence on Tuesday showed that sentiment slumped to its worst level in nearly two years this month.

Worries about Greece have also resurfaced, with yields on 10-year bonds climbing above the psychologically important 7pc level[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11161283/Greek-borrowing-costs-lurch-back-to-crisis-levels.html] for the first time since March.

Weak updates from Burberry, down 4.3pc, and Hargreaves Lansdown, off 2.7pc, have also rattled London investors.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141014eaae001e1


News
Airport Ebola screening will do little except catch flu patients, experts warn
Sarah Knapton
473 words
14 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; Scotland
10
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
EBOLA screening will begin at Heathrow airport today, with critics of the policy claiming it will do little but cause disruption to passengers.

Jeremy Hunt, the Health Secretary, announced yesterday that passengers arriving from Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia would face temperature checks and questions about their movements.

Last week Public Health England ruled out such measures, claiming they would target only "huge numbers of low–risk people". However, Mr Hunt told the House of Commons that medical advice had changed, and warned that Ebola would be in Britain by Christmas.

Enhanced screening will also be implemented at Gatwick and Eurostar terminals next week.

Mr Hunt said that 89 per cent of people travelling to Britain from West Africa would be checked, but admitted that one in 10 taking indirect routes would slip through screening.

But health experts questioned whether the enhanced screening would prevent the disease. Dr Ron Behrens, from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said the benefit of airport screening would be "very small", while there would be disruption to "large numbers of people".

He said: "It appears not to be a scientific decision but a political one."

Dr Ben Neuman, of the University of Reading, said screening would be made harder by the beginning of the flu season. "In the early stages, Ebola can be indistinguishable from the flu, but it can also have aspects of other winter viruses like colds and norovirus.

"These diseases usually develop differently over a few days, but in a situation where a screener only gets one chance to decide whether a passenger is an Ebola risk, other winter diseases will probably be mistaken for Ebola.

"It would not surprise me if airport screening measures mainly caught unfortunate passengers with seasonal ailments who were unlucky enough to have recently been to Africa."

Prof Derek Macallan, professor of infectious diseases and medicine at St George's University of London, also agreed that screening would prove "really difficult", but added: "If it raises awareness for people with fevers who have travelled abroad to seek medical advice, then it can only be a good thing."

The outbreak in West Africa shows no signs of slowing and measures to screen passengers could be in place for many months. The disease has claimed 4,033 lives, and a further 8,399 people across seven countries are believed to be infected.

The first American to contract Ebola in the US was yesterday identified by her family as Nina Pham, 26, from Fort Worth. Texas. Doctors described the nurse's condition as "clinically stable".

Miss Pham was part of the medical team that treated Thomas Eric Duncan, the Liberian man who brought the virus to America and died in Dallas Presbyterian Hospital last week.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141014eaae000ay


News
Ebola crisis could rival Aids epidemic, says health minister
Sarah Knapton
545 words
14 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
3; National
2
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
THE Ebola crisis could reach the scale of the Aids epidemic, the Health Secretary warned as he announced that screening would begin at Heathrow Airport today.

Passengers arriving on major routes from Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia will undergo temperature checks and be questioned about their movements.

Critics warned that the measures would do little but cause disruption to passengers, but Jeremy Hunt said it was crucial to contain the outbreak of the virus before it spread out of control.

"This is a global health emergency we haven't seen for years," he told The Times. "Possibly it could get to the scale of the Aids epidemic. The impact it could have could be absolutely huge.

"If we are going to make our country safe we need to make sure the virus is contained. It is a global phenomenon."

The first American to contract Ebola in the United States was yesterday identified by her family as Nina Pham, 26, from Fort Worth, Texas. Doctors described the nurse's condition as "clinically stable".

Margaret Chan, the head of the World Health Organisation, said the virus had "moved from a public health crisis to become a crisis for international peace and security".

Last week, Public Health England ruled out screening passengers at airports, claiming they would only target "huge numbers of low–risk people", but Mr Hunt told MPs it was "likely" that Ebola will arrive in Britain and a "handful" of cases could be confirmed in the next three months. "This Government's first priority is the safety of the British people," he said. Enhanced screening will be implemented at Gatwick and Eurostar terminals next week.

Mr Hunt said that 89 per cent of people travelling to Britain from West Africa would be checked, but admitted that one in 10 taking indirect routes would slip through screening.

Dr Ron Behrens, from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said the benefit of airport screening would be "very small" while there would be disruption to "large numbers of people". He said: "It appears not to be a scientific decision but a political one."

Dr Ben Neuman, of the University of Reading, said screening would be made harder by the beginning of the flu season. "In the early stages, Ebola can be indistinguishable from the flu, but it can also have aspects of other winter viruses like colds and norovirus," he said.

"It would not surprise me if airport screening measures mainly caught unfortunate passengers with seasonal ailments who were unlucky enough to have recently been to Africa."

Prof Derek Macallan, professor of infectious diseases and medicine at St George's University of London, agreed that screening would prove "really diffi–cult", but added: "If it raises awareness for people with fevers who have travelled abroad to seek medical advice, then it can only be a good thing."

Mr Hunt said plans were in place should there be a need for a "surge" in bed capacity to treat Ebola cases.

An Emirates flight was quarantined at Boston Airport last night after five passengers exhibited flu–like symptoms, although none had travelled from west Africa and US health authorities denied there was any connection to Ebola.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141014eaae0008o


Business
Equities turn positive at last as miners lifted by rise in Chinese exports
Ben Martin
918 words
14 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
7
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Market report

A BROAD rally in mining shares helped the beleaguered FTSE 100 eke out its first gain for a week.

London's benchmark share index finished up 26.27 points, or 0.4pc, at 6,366.24, the first time it closed in positive territory since last Monday.

Shaken by mounting concern about the eurozone economy, the spread of Ebola and geopolitical tensions, the blue–chip index dropped 2.9pc last week, its third straight weekly fall that formed part of a global rout in stocks.

But strong demand for resources shares helped the FTSE 100 stabilise yesterday, with investor appetite for the miners spurred by encouraging trade data from China – the world's biggest metals consumer – that showed a 15.3pc jump in exports last month compared with a year earlier. Imports also rose 7pc, confounding expectations of a fall.

Consequently, Anglo American climbed 62½p to £13.88, while Rio Tinto added 125p to £30.90, BHP Billiton rose 47p to £16.60½ and Glencore advanced 8.35p to 320.6p.

As if the numbers from China – which analysts said could have been boosted by one–off factors – were not enough, "buy" advice from brokers Canaccord Genuity and Credit Suisse gave investors another reason to look at the resources sector. Shares in the London–listed mining giants have been hit in recent weeks by heavy falls in metals prices, but the experts at Canaccord told investors to prepare for a rally. "We see more upside potential than downside risk, and recommend building positions in this period of share price weakness," they said. "While some commodities are currently in oversupply, in the longer term we see growing deficits for many commodities as a result of dramatic cuts in new project development."

The "large diversified mining equities" are the place to put your money, the analysts advised. "The majors are well positioned on the cost curve and are still in a position to consider increasing shareholder returns; it is generally the smaller single commodity plays that are struggling."

Credit Suisse analysts were also casting their eye over Anglo American and liked what they saw.

"Commodity prices have clearly weakened; however, our confidence in management delivering on targeted cost savings, capex reductions, and divestments has not," they said, and upgraded to "outperform".

Precious metals miners Randgold Resources, up 184p at £43.81, and Fresnillo, 29½p higher at 778½p, also gained ground, buoyed by a rise in the price of gold, which remained in favour for its defensive qualities.

Staying with the gainers, hopes that public service broadcasters will be allowed to charge Virgin Media and BSkyB to carry their main channels lifted ITV 1.3p to 197.2p. Viacom, which took ownership of Channel 5 last month, has backed a campaign by ITV and Channel 4 calling for the introduction of so–called retransmission fees, a move that "gives the story further momentum", Liberum told clients.

Meanwhile, small–cap radio streaming group 7digital leapt 15.625p, or 77.2pc, to 35.875p after confirming it is in talks with pop star will.i.am about providing music services to his forthcoming range of wearable devices.

In the FTSE 250 – 97.6 points lower at 14,543.98 – Synergy Health, a provider of sterilisation services, was the biggest riser, surging 31.4pc, a gain of 440p to £18.40, after disclosing it had agreed to be bought by American rival Steris for $1.9bn (£1.2bn), in a cash and paper offer that values the FTSE 250 group at £19.50 a share. The deal is being structured in such a way that will enable Steris to cut its tax bill, despite the US Treasury recently attempting to stamp – out such takeovers.

Indeed, Jefferies analysts yesterday recommended buying shares in another potential takeover target, AstraZeneca, in part because they believed the new Treasury measures would not deter US rival Pfizer from reviving its bid interest, after failing to buy the FTSE 100 company earlier this year. AstraZeneca closed 55½p better at £43.55½.

Elsewhere in the health care sector, Smith & Nephew slid 14½p to 976½p amid disappointment that its spray–on treatment for leg ulcers had failed a latestage trial.

Brewer Diageo was another faller, losing 5½p to £17.24 on worries about its first–quarter update on Thursday, which Sanford C Bernstein analysts said was "likely to be weak, but not as bad as some fear".

Shares in technology companies such as microchip designer Arm Holdings and Bluetooth group CSR remained out of favour and fell 20½p to 822p and 26p to 645p respectively. Microchip Technology, a US semi–conductor maker, shook investor confidence by warning last week that it had seen faltering demand from China. The slowdown has raised fears that the US group will pull out of bid talks for CSR.

A Takeover Panel "put up or shut up" deadline for a deal expires tomorrow.

Finally, Tesco slumped 4.65p to 180.6p on a warning that the disruption caused by the investigation into its £250m profit overstatement may "create operational paralysis" at the under–pressure supermarket group. "Tesco's ability to operate could be compromised at a critical period ahead of the start of the build up to Christmas trading," said Mike Dennis of Cantor Fitzgerald, adding that the investigation was likely to involve staff surrendering laptops and postponing supplier meetings.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141014eaae00024


Parenting 'experts' won't teach you anything about raising children
By Alex Proud
1609 words
13 October 2014
04:20 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The parenting advice industry preys on the guilt and insecurity of well-meaning people and mostly teaches us what we know instinctively, says Alex Proud

The Conscious Parent by Shefali Tsabary is a bestseller in the US and, is now being touted around the UK as the next big thing in parenting. It won’t be published in this country until next January, but when it is, I am going to buy, beg, borrow or steal 1000 copies.

When I reach this goal, I will build a towering pyre atop Primrose Hill, douse the books in petrol and torch the lot. Of course, I’m against burning books in general but when it comes to parental advice publishing I’m prepared to make an honourable exception. To invoke the opening line of Fahrenheit 451, these will be “a pleasure to burn.”

I have found being a parent the most terrifying, frustrating, rewarding... you get the picture. For most of us, once we finally realise we’re never going to be prime minister or an astronaut or win a televised extreme eating competition, it’s the most important and difficult thing we’ll do. And it’s utterly, hellishly confusing, especially in the early years. It makes riding a roller coaster on acid look like lawn bowls in Eastbourne.

Often there are no right or wrong answers, but even when there are we all make mistakes. We know we should have given little Jack fresh fruit, rather than three Peppa Pig jellies. We know we shouldn’t have shouted at Ruby; we should have sat down and given her a reasoned analysis of her behaviour worthy of Freud. We know we shouldn’t have allowed the 1200th viewing of Shrek and that, instead, we should have read them Moby Dick in Mandarin or helped them complete that 1000-piece puzzle of Rothko’s Red on Maroon.

I don’t think we really need books full of advice to tell us this though. I’m pretty sure that, deep down, everyone sort of knows that it’s better to walk for two hours in the woods than to spend the time on your iPads. The important basics – like decent fresh food, spending time with, loving them so on – may be difficult to do, but they’re certainly not difficult to understand.

Of course there are people who desperately need advice and help: very young parents, the poor, the ill-educated, people who’ve come from abusive backgrounds, the threatened and the threatening. We have a growing underclass that needs huge amounts of of help, education, love and, yes, money, from society. Instead, these days, they tend to get lectures on bucking up their ideas from people who were born with every conceivable advantage, but that’s another column.

The people who need help are not the people who will be ordering The Conscious Parent [http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/1473619386/ref=pd_lpo_sbs_dp_ss_1?pf_rd_p=479289247&pf_rd_s=lpo-top-stripe&pf_rd_t=201&pf_rd_i=1897238452&pf_rd_m=A3P5ROKL5A1OLE&pf_rd_r=0SZGPTMQAKERY7PKQ467] on Amazon Prime though. Rather it will be bought people like you and me who have no need of this advice. We’re well-educated, we’re well-off, we have robust support networks and, if things get serious, we know that you go to hospital - or at least Mumsnet. Nonetheless, we buy these books by the cartload and read them with an avidity that suggests their pages contain not only the secret of raising the next Einstein, but also the cure to Ebola and the key to natural dancefloor rhythm.

The parenting advice industry (PAI) promises you the moon, but what it actually delivers is endless anxiety. Am I doing it wrong? Will drinking a few glasses of wine on Friday mean my kids will soon be stealing car stereos to fuel their crack habits? Will my sweary outburst in front of my son be the butterfly’s wing flap which, 15 years hence, results in rejections from every Russell Group university? And what about that survey I did that suggested my parenting spirit animal was halfway between a sloth and a hyena?

This is why I hate the PAI. All its products are aimed at people who don’t need them and its chief marketing tool is the guilt and insecurity of well-meaning people. The actual advice itself ranges from the ridiculous to the inane, although once you strip it of its new clothes, it’s often sensible but banal stuff you’ve heard a thousand times before. I suppose, in a sense, it’s a little unfair to hold Ms Tsabary responsible for the sins of an entire sector. But The Conscious Parent is a New York Times bestseller and she’s appeared on Oprah’s Super Soul Sunday, so she’s probably sitting on pile of cash several times bigger than the pile of her books I hope to burn.

Anyway, on to the book. I downloaded the Kindle version which, regrettably, is not flammable. A couple of pages in, there’s a heading that reads: “You Are Raising A Spirit Throbbing With Its Own Signature.” Oh dear. I think the point she’s making is that even parents who want to encourage children to be “authentic” wind up imposing their own agenda and values on them. She makes this point quite a few times, often in consecutive sentences, because the book is nothing if not repetitive and waffly.

After reading the first 20 or so pages in their entirety, I just started skipping ahead, five, ten, twenty pages and it made no difference. In this respect, the book is a bit like EastEnders. You only have to watch it once every few weeks to know what’s going on. Phil will always be up to no good, someone will always be scheming to wrest the Queen Vic from someone else and your parenting will always be freighted with your unresolved issues unless you’re being as conscious as Ms Tsabary wants you to be.

To be fair, in amongst all this filler, there are a few stand-out points. She suggests that you should should approach child-rearing in the way you would approach running a business. Which has you wondering all sorts of strange things. Is little Joe delivering shareholder value? Is using a nanny a form of outsourcing? And what happens when you have to call to the administrators in on your own child after several years of unsustainably poor performance?

She also suggests ignoring the advice of your own parents. Again this raises questions - like what kind of person takes the parenting advice of a total stranger over their own mother?

Ms Tsabary is originally from India and, according to her website, specialises in the integration of Western psychology and Eastern philosophy. This is no doubt what caught the eye of Oprah who has enthusiastically endorsed her. But honestly, to me, it just seems that she’s mixing eastern drivel and western piffle. After about 50 pages I gave up went back to the spy novel I’d been reading earlier. In sharp contrast to The Conscious Parent, this was lean and tightly written with some interesting mediations on the subjective nature of truth. Best of all, as it was set in the Cold War, all the characters had stiff upper lips and never discussed their inner feelings about anything, ever.

The whole point of parenting is you learn it yourself. In doing it the hard way you form deeper bonds with your children. You may also form a deeper bond with your own parents when you endlessly call them for advice. Making mistakes and recognising that you need to change, adapt and be self critical is as important as getting it right. Well, unless we’re talking about swimming. I don’t believe anyone really throws the baby in and drowning mistakes are not the kind you learn from.

Of course, like most parent books, in amongst all the blather and kookiness (have you ever tried to get a five year old to meditate for an hour?) there are some sensible points. But, the good stuff is just common sense (let your kids make their own mistakes, spend time with them, take them for walks) rather than the revolutionary approach it’s billed as – and what’s more it comprises about 1% of the text. A decent editor could probably cut the book down to a half dozen pages of useful advice.

This is the parenting advice industry’s dirty little secret. All it’s doing is endlessly recycling six pages of common sense that you can get in a free NHS pamphlet. If I had to give you any parenting advice, it would be to ignore the parenting advice industry. In fact, you should probably be ignoring any industry that relies on that winning combination your insecurities and Oprah’s gushing endorsements to market its products.

Instead, listen to people you know and trust – like your peers, your doctor, your own parents. My own parents (whose wisdom, apparently, I should discount) taught me things like common sense, moderation, self belief, and above all that if you love your kids and spend time with them, they’ll probably turn out OK. Sure, they take the piss out of my ham-fisted attempts at fatherhood but they’ve never once suggested that all that stands between me and a grand unified theory of parenting is dropping £10.49 on Amazon.

Anyway, I hope to see you at at the top of Primrose Hill where I’ll be demonstrating that sometimes burning books can make you better balanced, batter informed and, above all, a better parent.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141013eaad001e2


FINANCE
Oil slump adds to FTSE 100 woes as markets remain volatile
By Ben Martin and Andrew Critchlow
563 words
13 October 2014
12:09 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Brent crude crash hits London's benchmark stock index as European markets open sharply lower

Brent crude crashed to $88 a barrel on Monday morning amid innaction by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec) to arrest the sharp decline in the price of oil.

Having touched $115 in mid-June, brent has tumbled in recent months, hit by a strong US dollar, oversupply in the system and declining demand.

"Opec countries appear to be more interested in defending their market shares at present than stabilizing prices," said Commerzbank in a note to investors after reports that Saudi Arabia would be willing to tolerate lower prices of around $80 per barrel.

Traders are concerned that Opec, which controls a third of world supply, will rollover production at it final meeting of the year in Vienna in November, adding to an emerging glut of oil in the system as global demand eases. Brent was trading down over 2pc at just over $88 on Monday morning.

The slump in oil added to the early gloom on the FTSE 100, which remained volatile in the wake of last week's sell-off.

London's benchmark equity index fell as much as 45 points, or 0.7pc, to 6,296 in early trade before rallying to edge up 4.5 points to 6,344. The volatility followed a plunge in global stock markets, which saw the blue-chips suffer a 2.9pc drop last week amid growing investor concern about the health of the global economy.

Worries about the end of quantitative easing in the United States and possible rate rises, growing geopolitical tensions and fears about the spread of Ebola have put further pressure on market sentiment in recent weeks. As a result, the FTSE 100 has plunged more than 7pc since September 19, when London shares briefly rallied after Scotland voted to stay in the UK.

Like the London index, European markets recorded similar swing between losses and gains on Monday, with the CAC 40 in France and Germany's DAX both falling sharply before rebounding in mid-morning trade.

Asian markets also lost ground ahead of the European open, with Japan's Nikkei 225 dropping 1.2pc overnight.

On Wall Street, the 30-company Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 0.7pc, or 115 points, on Friday night and the broader S&P 500 tumbled 1.2pc. The Vix, the so-called "fear index" that measures volatility, finished up 13.2pc on Friday evening.

"Demonstrating the extent to which the market has shifted from greed to fear, the Vix reached its highest level since 2012, as investors price risk back into equity market valuations," said Rebecca O'Keeffe, head of investment at stockbroker Interactive Investor.

"Despite the US economy continuing to grow strongly, the general market malaise has been contagious and concerns about slowing global growth are calling into question the timing of when US rate rises will finally start.

"Any significant delay in these expectations will undermine the US dollar's recent recovery; however the continued support of the Fed should be seen as a positive sign for nervous investors."

Gold, a traditional safe-haven for investors in times of uncertainty, climbed as much as 1.2pc to $1,237 an ounce on Monday.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141013eaad001jl


NEWS
Second US Ebola victim infected despite protective suit
By Rosa Prince
842 words
13 October 2014
07:22 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Officials ‘very concerned’ that Dallas hospital worker who contracted the disease while treating the America's first Ebola casualty was following guidelines for staying safe

A Dallas health worker who looked after the first Ebola victim to die in the United States contracted the disease despite wearing a full protective gown, gloves and face shield as she cared for him.

Officials in Texas said they were “very concerned” that the first transmission of the virus on US soil occurred despite following health and safety guidelines.

The female nurse, who has asked not to be named, had been classified as having a “low risk” of carrying the disease before testing positive for Ebola on Saturday night.

Dallas County Judge Clay Jenkins described her as a “heroic person who provided care to Mr Duncan.”

He went on: “This is a person who is going through a great ordeal and so is the family.”

The nurse had cared for Thomas Eric Duncan on the second occasion he attempted to get treatment in the emergency room of the Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas.

Duncan, 42, died on Wednesday, two weeks after travelling to the US from Liberia, the west African country at the centre of the outbreak, where he was thought to have contracted the disease while accompanying a dying pregnant woman in a taxi to hospital.

Those caring for him were said by hospital officials to have abided by Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) guidelines which stipulate that full protective suits should be worn while treating Ebola victims.

The latest victim was in a group of 48 health care workers who were being monitored but were considered at low risk of developing the disease when she began to run a low-grade fever on Friday.

Federal officials confirmed on Sunday that she had tested positive for the virus. Texas officials had earlier reported that preliminary tests showed the worker had been exposed to Ebola, but they were awaiting confirmation from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. That confirmation came on Sunday afternoon.

Duncan was sent home from hospital on the first occasion that he sought help, and was finally admitted four days later, by which time he was likely to have been highly contagious.

It was on this second visit to the hospital that the nurse came into contact with him.

Dr David Varga, the Chief Clinical Officer, said: “This individual was following full CDC guidelines. We’re very concerned.”

A nurse in Spain who treated a dying priest and went on to develop Ebola has admitted that she may have touched her face while removing her protective suit. The latest victim will now be interviewed to see if she made a similar slip.

Dr Tom Freiden, head of the CDC, said the fact that the Dallas nurse had become infected suggested that the safety procedures had been breached.

An investigation to be launched by the agency will examine whether staff were removing their protective clothing in the correct manner.

Dr Freiden told CBS that the infected worker had been in contact with Duncan on a number of occasions, and that all those who treated the Liberian were now considered to be potentially exposed.

Dallas officials said they were confident that infection could be contained. The latest victim was taken into isolation within 90 minutes of arriving in hospital. She was said to be in a stable condition and had requested "total privacy".

To begin with, officials said only that an unnamed health worker had contracted the disease, but CNN later confirmed that it was a female nurse who had become infected.

The fact that the Dallas nurse caught Ebola despite taking apparently stringent precautions has alarmed the authorities, and is likely to create panic across America.

Judge Jenkins, who is in charge of the civilian response to the outbreak, had already been shunned by his neighbours, with parents pulling their children out of his daughters’ school, after spending time with the Duncan family.

In August, when the first American Ebola victim, missionary Dr Kent Brantly, was flown back from Liberia for treatment in the US, Donald Trump, the billionaire property mogul, said he should have been forced to remain in Africa.

Officials said that the latest victim’s apartment was being cleaned and her car had already been isolated and decontaminated.

A close relative had been put into quarantine, and their pet was being monitored.

Spanish authorities who euthanised a dog belonging to the nurse had faced protests.

The emergency room at Texas Presbyterian has been closed to admissions and a team of experts has gone to the nurse's neighbourhood to discuss the case with residents.

The White House issued a statement saying that President Obama had been briefed on the latest victim's condition and had ordered the CDC to ensure that: “Federal authorities take immediate additional steps to ensure hospitals and healthcare providers nationwide are prepared to follow protocols should they encounter an Ebola patient.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141012eaac0030e


News
Nurse becomes first victim of Ebola virus transmission in America
Rosa Prince
802 words
13 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
17
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A NURSE in Dallas who looked after the first Ebola victim to die in the United States contracted the disease despite wearing a full protective gown, gloves and face shield as she cared for him, it emerged yesterday.

Officials in Texas said the woman, the first person to contract the virus on US soil, must have breached safety protocols to become infected.

The discovery of a second case in America prompted President Barack Obama to order authorities to take "additional steps" to contain the disease, which has killed more than 4,000 people worldwide this year.

A White House statement said the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) had been told to ensure that "federal authorities take immediate additional steps to ensure hospitals and health care providers nationwide are prepared to follow protocols should they encounter an Ebola patient".

The latest American victim of the disease, who has asked not to be named, had originally been told there was a"low risk" she had been infected before testing positive for Ebola on Saturday night. She was said to have had extensive contact with the first US victim, Thomas Eric Duncan, 42, at the Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital. Mr Duncan died on Wednesday, two weeks after travelling to the US from Liberia, the west African country where more than 2,300 people have been killed by the disease.

He was thought to have contracted it while accompanying a dying pregnant woman to hospital in a taxi.

Mr Duncan was sent home from hospital the first time he sought help and was admitted four days later, by which time he was contagious.

It was during this second visit to the hospital that the newly infected nurse began treating him while wearing protective clothing including a gown, gloves and face mask.

Those caring for him believe they abided by CDC guidelines, which stipulate that full protective suits should be worn while treating Ebola victims.

As a result, the nurse was originally allowed to self–monitor her condition along with 48 other health workers who took their own temperature once a day.

She began to run a low–grade fever on Friday and contacted her superiors to report the situation. A preliminary test found low levels of Ebola. Although this has yet to be confirmed by a second test, officials said they were "unfortunately confident" it would be.

A nurse in Spain who treated a dying priest and went on to develop Ebola admitted that she may have touched her face while removing her protective suit, but Dallas health workers argued that they followed procedure.

Dr Tom Freiden, the head of the CDC, said that although the American nurse could not remember making a similar slip, the fact she was infected suggested she must have breached protocols.

He added that other members of the team that cared for Mr Duncan could go on to develop the disease, but was confident that it could be contained by breaking the "chain" of infection. "It is deeply concerning that this infection occurred," he said. "That doesn't change the bottom line here, which is that we know how to break the chain of transmission."

The latest victim was taken into isolation within 90 minutes of arriving in hospital and had contact with only one other person while showing symptoms. She was said to be in a stable condition and had requested "total privacy".

Clay Jenkins, a Dallas county judge who is in charge of the civilian response to the outbreak, described her as a "heroic person" who was now "going through a great ordeal".

Dr David Lakey, the commissioner of the Texas department of state health services, said: "Is it frightening and disappointing? Of course it is. Our hearts go out to the family and the health care worker, who is infected. She is going to have a rough time."

The first case of transmission of the virus on US soil has alarmed the authorities and is likely to create panic across America. Judge Jenkins had already been shunned by his neighbours, with parents pulling their children out of his daughters' school.

Health workers around the world are finding it an increasingly difficult to treat Ebola patients while staying free of the disease. Many complain in particular about the difficulty of working inside hot, uncomfortable suits, which are difficult to remove without becoming exposed to bodily fluids of patients through which the disease is transmitted.

In Liberia, the most severely hit west African country, nurses and doctors are threatening to go on strike unless they receive "hazard pay" of $700 (£436) on top of their salaries. President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf toured Ebola treatment units in the capital Monrovia urging staff to remain at their posts.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141013eaad0006o


FINANCE
Stock market 'fear index' spikes as clouds gather over world economy
By James Titcomb
222 words
13 October 2014
07:48 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Vix measure of stock market volatility hits two-year high as US markets slide on oil and Ebola fears

Fear is spreading across stock markets as weak economic growth, collapsing oil prices and the threat of Ebola panics investors.

The Vix, the so-called "fear index" that measures market volatility, spiked by 16pc on Monday to its highest level for more than two years.

Markets have seen a widespread sell-off in recent days as fears over economic growth around the world worry investors.

The FTSE 100 is trading at its lowest level for a year[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/markets/marketreport/11153756/FTSE-100-correction-more-than-a-dip-as-Europe-stares-into-abyss.html], while the US S&P 500 has seen three days of heavy falls.

The price of Brent Crude oil, meanwhile, fell to a four-year low on Monday[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/newsbysector/energy/oilandgas/11159987/Oil-prices-could-fall-below-80-as-Opec-keeps-pumping.html] .

The Vix has been unusually quiet in the last few months, trading at pre-crisis levels amid an atmosphere of low interest rates.

However, growth fears stemming from continued weakness in the eurozone have caused a sell-off. The spread of the deadly Ebola virus has also panicked investors.

Other developments causing the sell-off are the end of money printing in the US and the conflict in the Middle East[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/markets/11160285/Seven-reasons-why-the-worlds-stock-markets-are-facing-intense-turbulence.html] .

The Vix was last at its current level in June 2012.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141013eaad006sh


NEWS
WHO says Ebola is 'most severe acute health emergency in modern times'
By Leon Watson
827 words
13 October 2014
05:53 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The World Health Organisation issues stark warning as the Government is set to announce "important changes" in the NHS to tackle a possible outbreak

The Ebola outbreak is the "most severe acute health emergency in modern times", the World Health Organisation has warned.

The agency's director-general Margaret Chan said the epidemic had proved "the world is ill-prepared to respond to any severe, sustained, and threatening public health emergency".

She added that new cases of Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] are now "rising exponentially" in the three hardest-hit countries, Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone.

In a statement to a regional health conference in the Philippine capital Manila, she said: "I have never seen a health event threaten the very survival of societies and governments in already very poor countries.

"I have never seen an infectious disease contribute so strongly to potential state failure."

Her statement was read by a WHO official who said Mrs Chan was unable to attend because "she is fully occupied with coordinating the international response to what is unquestionably the most severe acute public health emergency in modern times".

The warning comes as the Government is set to announce "important changes" in the NHS to tackle a possible outbreak[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11159238/Ebola-crisis-disease-will-be-in-Britain-by-Christmas-warns-Jeremy-Hunt.html] .

Enhanced screening for the virus at two of the country's biggest airports[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11159632/Jeremy-Hunt-announces-ebola-screening-for-travellers-at-Heathrow.html] is due to be introduced this week after Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt announced that calls to the NHS's non-emergency 111 phoneline will also be screened for potential Ebola sufferers.

Call handlers on the service are to question anyone ringing up with possible symptoms of the disease about their recent travel history to see if they have been to west Africa, where the death toll has passed 4,000 people, Mr Hunt said.

He told BBC Breakfast: "We have to prepare for the situation getting worse. I want to make sure we are prepared.

"It is now more likely that someone will eventually be diagnosed in the UK with Ebola. It is crucial that we are prepared for what happens when they make their first contact with the NHS.

"That's why we're introducing later to Parliament some very important changes across the NHS just to prepare ourselves for the eventuality it might get worse."

A spokesman for Heathrow Airport said enhanced screening for Ebola is due to be introduced "in the next couple of days", while Gatwick and Eurostar rail terminals are also set to introduce checks.

A Gatwick Airport spokesman said: "We have been in constant contact with Public Health England on planning and contingency measures and will continue to work closely with them in relation to Ebola.

"While the risk of contracting Ebola remains low, any additional screening measures following Government advice will be implemented. In addition, our airport medical responders are fully prepared to recognise the symptoms of Ebola and take any necessary action in the event of a suspected case."

Mr Hunt has insisted[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11158221/Britain-should-prepare-for-Ebola-outbreak-to-get-a-lot-worse-Jeremy-Hunt-warns.html] that the UK has "robust and well-tested systems for dealing with any imported case of Ebola" but the need for further measures was "under review and we will never be complacent".

He said: "Now all call handlers on the NHS 111 service are asking anyone reporting potential symptoms of Ebola, such as respiratory problems, high temperatures, or diarrhoea and vomiting, about their recent travel history, so appropriate help can be given to people who might be at higher risk of having come into contact with the virus.

"If the person with symptoms has recently been to west Africa and is at high risk of having been in contact with Ebola, 111 will immediately refer them to local emergency services for assessment by ambulance personnel with appropriate protective equipment.

"The NHS and Public Health England are well prepared for Ebola, and I am determined to make sure that we continue to do everything we can to protect the public, based on the best medical advice."

UK chief medical officer Dame Sally Davies said the country should expect a "handful" of Ebola cases in the coming months after a major exercise to test the country's readiness for such cases was carried out over the weekend.

Britain's latest Ebola aid flight delivering beds, personal protection suits, tents and 10 vehicles landed in Freetown today, International Development Secretary Justine Greening said. It includes equipment for a 92-bed unit being built by a UK team.

Aid delivered so far includes ambulances, water tanks, incinerators for disposing of clothing and other materials, generators and personal protection equipment.

The United States has announced its second case of Ebola, in a Texas hospital worker[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11158033/Boston-hospital-monitoring-patient-for-possible-Ebola-case.html] who was in contact with Thomas Eric Duncan, who died from the virus last Wednesday.

Officials in Dallas said there had been been a breach of protocol that led to the unnamed woman becoming infected after she wore full protective gear while treating Mr Duncan.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141013eaad002s2


NEWS
World would probably already have cure for Ebola if it were not for spending cuts, says top US official
By Philip Sherwell New York
768 words
13 October 2014
02:02 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The head of the National Institutes of Health said that research on an Ebola vaccine began in 2001 but has been help up by budget cuts

An Ebola vaccine and drugs to treat the disease would probably have already been discovered if medical research funding had not suffered a series of budget cuts, a top US health official has said.

Francis Collins, the head of the National Institutes of Health, said that agency had been working on Ebola vaccines since 2001, but that the research has been held up by spending cuts.

"It's not like we suddenly woke up and thought, 'Oh my gosh, we should have something ready here'," the director of US government's main medical research facility told The Huffington Post[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2014/10/12/ebola-vaccine-n-5974148.html] .

"Frankly, if we had not gone through our 10-year slide in research support, we probably would have had a vaccine in time for this, that would've gone through clinical trials and would have been ready."

He said research on treatments for those infected could also have been much further advanced. "We would have been a year or two ahead of where we are, which would have made all the difference," he said.

There has been no increase in funding for Ebola research, despite the severity of the epidemic in West Africa and fears of an outbreak in America, so the agency has redirected funds allocated for other research such as a universal influenza vaccine.

Dr Collins told the Huffington Post that although health officials were already "cutting corners" in an effort to produce an Ebola vaccine, the best-case scenario was that clinical trials could start by December.

He was more hopeful for the prospects of developing a therapy from experimental antivirus drugs such as ZMapp, but stockpiles were in extremely short supply and it will be difficult to ramp up production significantly before next year.

"Had it not been for other shortages, we might very well by now know that it works and have a large stock of it," he said.

Meanwhile, doctors in Dallas continued the treatment of a nurse who became the first person to contract the nurse in the US after helping to care for a Liberian man who died of the disease last week.

Thomas Frieden, the head of then Centres for Disease Control and Protection, said that the unnamed nurse was infected after a "breach in protocol", apparently during the complicated process of removing protective gear.

Dr Frieden said that he "would not be surprised" to see additional Ebola cases in Dallas among health workers who treated the dead patient.

The US must now "rethink" the way it addresses Ebola control following the infection of the nurse, he said, adding that even a "single infection" was "unacceptable".

He said that CDC experts were still trying to determine how many other health care workers at the Texas hospital might have been exposed to Ebola virus.

Dr Frieden also apologised if gave the impression that the nurse was at fault for contracting the disease when he said that she was infected as a result of "breach in protocol".

He praised the nurse and her colleagues for her work "on the front lines fighting the enemy" of Ebola.

But as health care workers warned that the blame should not be placed on the victim, the largest American nursing association said that three out of four nurses had not received training or guidance from their hospitals on handling potential Ebola patients.

"We have been screaming for the past three months that hospitals are not prepared," said Deborah Burger, co-president of National Nurses United, which represents 185,000 nurses across the country and conducted the new survey.

CDC will this week step up its campaign to provide information to hospital.

"There are 5,000 hospitals in the U.S. and I would say probably the number of them that have actually done drills or put plans in place is small," said Abigail Tumpey, a CDC spokeswoman.

In a separate development, the NBC News crew exposed to Ebola in Liberia were forced into mandatory quarantine in the US after the network's chief medical correspondent Nancy Snyderman reportedly visited her favourite New Jersey soup restaurant in breach of their voluntary isolation, according to US media.

Dr Nancy Snyderman was one of seven NBC workers ordered to cut all human contact for 21 days as doctors treat Ashoka Mukpo, an American-British cameraman, for the disease.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141013eaad004n3


NEWS
Ebola outbreak in pictures
101 words
13 October 2014
11:36 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The Ebola outbreak in West Africa is said to be one of the most virulent viral diseases known to humankind, the virus causes death in 50 to 90 per cent of all clinically ill cases. UK plans to introduce screening against Ebola at some airports and railway terminals.

The Ebola outbreak in West Africa is said to be one of the most virulent viral diseases known to humankind, the virus causes death in 50 to 90 per cent of all clinically ill cases. UK plans to introduce screening against Ebola at some airports and railway terminals.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141010eaaa003s5


FINANCE
Ebola epidemic to threaten the world's chocolate supplies
By Anna White Property correspondent
420 words
13 October 2014
08:30 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Ebola crisis could crunch world chocolate production and the livelihoods of West African farmers

Fears are growing that the Ebola epidemic in West Africa could spread to the Ivory Coast and Ghana, where 60pc of the world’s cocoa is farmed, causing prices to surge and then crash.

Economists have warned of an “Ebola effect” to cocoa prices, which are already extremely volatile to pests, civil war, political crisis and the weather. The outbreak of the deadly disease, which has killed 4,000 people worldwide so far, could cause yet another boom and bust, consultants at PwC said.

The cocoa bean farms of West Africa, which are about to start harvesting, have suffered from a lack of investment over the last 20 years because speculators have been deterred by price volatility, according to the accountancy firm.

The ageing orchards of the Ivory Coast and Ghana, and elderly farmers who are working the land, are in need of further investment in order to satisfy the world’s growing taste for chocolate products.

Cocoa prices have risen 16pc in the last 12 months, and the average price of cocoa in September is up by 30pc on same period for 2013.

If these higher prices encourage more investment in new cocoa orchards, there could then be another bust in cocoa products in 2020s, just as the was in the 1980s following the 1970s cocoa price boom,” said John Hawksworth, chief economist at PwC.

“The challenge for both policy-makers and confectionary companies will be to smooth out these boom-bust cycles, which can do great damage to the small farmers.”

Prices also surged in 1969 as the deterioation of West African road network constrained supply, then prices crashed as a result two years later.

1977 saw the biggest spike in cocoa prices in the modern age up to $8,000 per metric tonne.

Soaring chocolate sales in China are also crunching supply and putting pressure on West African production, according to Thomas Bischof, marketing manager for Buhler, which makes chocolate-making ­machines.

His warning came at last week’s World Chocolate Forum in London.

Experts at the event said ­traditional treats will have to change as demand for cocoa increases.

Bars will be bulked up with cheaper ­ingredients like sugar, nougat and raisins as prices soar.

Nestle and Mars are trying to rectify the lack of investment and future supply crisis with $1bn of funds, Mr Hawksworth added.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141013eaad000gs


NEWS
Texas hospital worker tests positive for Ebola
By Telegraph Video video source ITN
178 words
13 October 2014
07:22 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A hospital worker in Texas who treated a patient who died of Ebola has tested positive for the disease, officials have confirmed

A Texas health care worker who provided hospital care for an Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] patient who later died has tested positive for the virus, US officials said on Sunday.

Dallas County Judge, Clay Jenkins, said in a televised statement that the health worker had asked not to be named and for their family's privacy to be respected.

Health officials said the worker was in full protective gear when they provided care to Thomas Eric Duncan[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11157106/Second-US-Ebola-victim-infected-despite-protective-suit.html] during his second visit to Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital. Mr Duncan died on Wednesday in Dallas.

Health officials said the health care worker reported a fever on Friday night as part of a self-monitoring regimen required by the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control.

If the preliminary diagnosis is confirmed, it would be the first known case of the disease being contracted or transmitted in the US.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141012eaac003ux


NEWS
Britain should prepare for Ebola outbreak to get 'a lot worse', Jeremy Hunt warns
By Ben Riley-Smith Political Correspondent
621 words
13 October 2014
06:04 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Health Secretary says country should plan for deterioration in situation as he reveals estimate for number of cases in Britain will be made on Monday

Britain should prepare for the possibility of the Ebola outbreak getting "a lot worse", Jeremy Hunt has said ahead of a statement to Parliament.

The Health Secretary also revealed he will receive predictions for the number of Ebola cases expected in Britain from the Coalition's Chief Medical Officer on Monday.

Mr Hunt called the outbreak a "global public health emergency" and said the country should be prepared to "step up" protection measures should the situation deteriorate.

The comments follow criticism of the Government's measures for stopping the spread of Ebola over the weekend amid fears people carrying the disease may be able to enter the country undetected.

Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, said on Sunday there is "little doubt" a case of Ebola will be found in the UK and predicted it would happen in the county's capital.

The outbreak of the disease has already claimed more than 4,000 lives while the first incidence of contraction in America was discovered over the weekend.

Discussing the situation on BBC Radio 4's Today Programme, Mr Hunt praised the health care workers battling the spread of the disease in Africa but warned the situation could deteriorate.

"I think it's very important to remember that the advice from Public Health England, which gives us independent advice, is that the risk to the general public in Britain remains low," Mr Hunt said.

"But what I am going to be saying today to Parliament is that we need to prepare for the possibility that it will get worse."

"At the moment the number of cases is doubling every three to four weeks. It is a global public health emergency and we need to make sure that we are prepared in the UK to step up if the situation deteriorates."

He added: "This morning I shall be receiving from the Chief Medical Officer her current estimate of the number of cases that we're likely to have to deal with in the next three months ... At the moment the numbers are very low but we have to prepare for the possibility it could get a lot worse."

One Briton is known to have contracted the Ebola virus while abroad – William Pooley, a 29-year-old volunteer nurse working in Sierra Leone – but he was cured after flying back home for emergency treatment.

However, with the situation deteriorating in West Africa and given the long delay before carriers of the disease show symptoms there are concerns about whether the Government's measures to stop the disease spreading to Britain are sufficient.

On Sunday, Mr Johnson said airport screening, introduced for passengers from Ebola-hit African countries into Britain, was “far from perfect” without blood tests.

"It's one of those cases where we are at risk of seeming to promise stuff that doesn't really make any sense. You can't blood test everybody coming into the country," the London Mayor said.

The comments follow a warning from Dame Sally Davies, the government's Chief Medical Office, that cases will hit Britain.

“It will not be surprising if we have spillover into this country so I would expect a handful of cases in the next few months," she said.

It has also emerged call handlers on the NHS non-emergency 111 phone line will try to identify possible Ebola sufferers, asking those who mention symptoms whether they have recently travelled to areas affected by the disease.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141013eaad001xl


FINANCE
Market report: Ebola worries draw attention to Bioquell
By Ben Martin
944 words
13 October 2014
04:54 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Shares in the small-capper surged as traders picked up on the company's work combating the virus

While Ebola fears continued to rattle travel-related stocks, shares in one of London’s smaller companies jumped after traders picked up on its work combating the deadly virus.

Andover-based Bioquell, a specialist in decontamination technology, surged 19½p, or 21.8pc, to 109p in trading volume that was far higher than normal.

Dealers said the company had drawn attention because of its involvement in treating Ebola, which has caused the deaths of more than 3,400 people in Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia and has now spread to Europe.

The group’s Bioquell Pod product converts open wards into single-patient rooms and can be used to manage people suspected of having contracted Ebola.

Furthermore, its hydrogen peroxide vapour system decontaminates equipment and rooms used in the fight against the virus and has been put into action in France and Holland, as well as at the Royal Free Hospital in London, where Ebola survivor William Pooley received treatment.

On Thursday, speculation that Bioquell will see an increase in demand for its products pushed the shares to their highest close since May.

More broadly, however, the virus remained a concern for investors amid worries it would hit demand for overseas travel. International Airlines Group, the owner of British Airways and Spanish carrier Iberia, fell 10.3p to 333p, holidays group TUI Travel lost 10.1p to 356.9p and easyJet closed 37p lower at £13.41.

The London market started the session brightly, buoyed by a surge in Wall Street overnight after the latest minutes from the US Federal Reserve suggested interest rates would not be lifted in coming months.

Brokers said that retail investors used the morning rebound to sell out of positions in the wake of two days of falls in the FTSE 100, the FTSE 250 and the junior Aim market. Indeed, it was not long until the market turned once again.

Another set of disappointing economic data from Germany knocked investor confidence and a warning from Chancellor George Osborne of the risks posed by the weakening eurozone economy gave another incentive to sell.

Consequently, the FTSE 100 relinquished its early gains to finish down 50.39 points, or 0.8pc, at 6,431.85 – its worst close for a year – the FTSE 250 lost 122.19 to 14,811.33 – a 0.8pc decline – and the FTSE Aim All-Share slid 0.7pc.

Investors on Wall Street also took fright, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbling more than 300 points an hour after London had closed.

Societe Generale strategist Albert Edwards, a self-described “uber bear”, best summed up the mood by warning that fund managers are “getting increasingly nervous that we have reached the end of the road and a major market top may be forming in equities”.

Although equities generally were out of favour, gold surged as much as 2.2pc to $1,233 an ounce on the dovish Fed minutes and stock sell-off, pushing shares in London-listed precious metals miners higher.

Fresnillo climbed 46½p, or 6.4pc, to 770p and Randgold Resources gained 248p to £42.98, a 6.1pc rise. An upgrade to “overweight” from “neutral” by HSBC gave Randgold an additional lift, as did a move to “buy” from “add” at Numis.

Egyptian gold miner Centamin advanced 0.65p to 58.4p, having pleased with third-quarter production results in which it stuck with a full-year output guidance of 420,000 ounces of the yellow metal.

In fact, corporate updates were a major driver of share prices on Thursday.

Recruiter Hays climbed 2.7p to 122.7p in the wake of an encouraging set of first-quarter numbers. John Wood Group, the oilfield services company, gained 13½p to 692p after confirming that it expects to meet forecasts for the year.

But N Brown, the home-shopping retailer, plunged 46.2, or 13.3pc, to 302p after rattling investors with a shock profit warning.

Peel Hunt analyst John Stevenson noted that the company had only updated the market on September 16, but was now slashing its guidance for the second-half of the year. Given the short space of time, the analyst said he found the “scale” of the downgrades required “difficult to justify in light of just three weeks further trading”, and cut his recommendation from “buy” to “hold”.

Elsewhere among the retail shares, positive broker comment following a presentation to analysts a day earlier helped Dixons Carphone 0.9p to 367p.

“Post-merger integration activities for Dixons Carphone are well under way and, if anything, are ahead of schedule with £80m of synergies firmly underpinned,” said the experts at Investec. The tie-up between Dixons and Carphone Warehouse completed in early August.

Vodafone slumped 6.95p to 197.35p after Nomura analysts warned[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/markets/marketreport/11150847/Vodafone-slides-on-cautious-broker-note.html] that the telecoms giant faces growing competition in the UK, Netherlands and India.

Reports that the group may revive its bid interest in Italian broadband company Fastweb also hurt the shares, with Espirito Santo analysts saying they found “some of the suggested multiples, in the eight times to 10 times EBITDA range, surprising for a business that generates next to no cash flow”.

Finally, Associated British Foods, the sugar-to-clothing-conglomerate, fell as much as 32p before closing down 12p at £25.53 after it was hit by a warning from Germany’s Suedzucker, the biggest sugar producer in Europe, that it was becoming harder to reach its target for annual operating profits.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141009eaa900565


News
NHS non–emergency helpline operators will screen callers for disease, says Hunt
Oliver Duggan; Matthew Holehouse
488 words
13 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
17
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
BRITONS displaying symptoms associated with the Ebola virus are to be screened through calls to the NHS's non–emergency 111 phoneline, Jeremy Hunt, the Health Secretary, said yesterday.

Operators of the service are to question callers with a fever, diarrhoea or vomiting about their recent travel history to establish whether they have been to west Africa. Mr Hunt said Britain had "robust and well–tested systems for dealing with any imported case of Ebola".

However, he said: "We keep the need for further measures under review and will never be complacent – so I asked for additional steps to be taken by NHS 111.

"Now all call handlers on the NHS 111 service are asking anyone reporting potential symptoms of Ebola, such as respiratory problems, high temperatures, or diarrhoea and vomiting, about their recent travel history.

"If the person with symptoms has recently been to west Africa and is at high risk of having been in contact with Ebola, 111 will immediately refer them to local emergency services for assessment by ambulance personnel with appropriate protective equipment."

The announcement came as Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, said there was "no doubt" the deadliest outbreak of Ebola in history would hit Britain. He said he was almost certain that the disease would infect people in the capital.

He also suggested airport screening, introduced for passengers travelling from Ebola–hit African countries to Europe and North America, could do little to stop the virus spreading.

Mr Johnson said: "I have no doubt, I have little doubt, that eventually there will be a case of Ebola in this country and probably in this city.

"The idea of screening it at airports is far from perfect as a solution.

"It's one of those cases where we are at risk of seeming to promise stuff that doesn't really make any sense. You can't blood test everybody coming into the country."

The comments follow a warning from Dame Sally Davies, the Government's chief medical officer, that cases would be discovered in Britain. "It will not be surprising if we have spillover into this country so I would expect a handful of cases in the next few months," she said.

The Government has introduced the screening of passengers arriving at Heathrow, Gatwick and the Eurostar terminal. Teams equipped with thermal guns will take the temperatures of passengers from Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, asking them questions about their possible exposure to the virus.

As part of the British effort to help contain the outbreak, the Royal Fleet Auxiliary Argus, a medical ship, is being loaded with supplies in Falmouth ahead of a mission to Sierra Leone. Britain is sending 750 Ministry of Defence personnel to help Sierra Leone cope with the crisis, including more than 200 military staff to run Ebola training facilities.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141013eaad0008a


Features; Opinion, Column
How the world ignored Africa's Ebola tragedy
Max Pemberton
738 words
13 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
26
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Of all the thousands of people who have died from the Ebola virus, just eight deaths tell us most about the disaster.

These eight dead people embody the scale of epidemic that authorities around the world are facing. In mid–September, local administrators, two medical officers and a preacher, accompanied by three journalists, travelled through remote villages of south–east Guinea, where the outbreak first began. They were attempting to educate the local people about how the disease is spread and how to limit the number of people it infected. But things did not go according to plan.

Instead of delivering their message and moving on to the next village, they went missing. Their bodies were later found in the village latrine. They had been murdered by the villagers.

Such violence is not an isolated event. There have been other reports of local people attacking hospitals, aid workers and doctors across West Africa. While these communities are ravaged by the infection, they are distrustful and scared of outsiders. They believe that foreigners are bringing the disease and are petrified of coming into contact with them.

There have been reports of youths protecting villages and roads with machetes and slingshots. With crushing poverty comes ignorance, fear and superstition. Many prefer to consult tribal doctors who, in reality, provide no remedy against the illness except hope. One bishop in Liberia has announced that he plans to rid the country of the virus with a mass exorcism using Vimto instead of communion wine.

All of the West African countries under siege from the virus have one thing in common: extreme poverty. It is this that makes them so susceptible to such an outbreak. Poor sanitation and nutrition have created the perfect storm for the virus to thrive, while poor transport and communication networks have made any coordinated response almost impossible. So volunteers must traipse from village to village in a desperate attempt to educate the people.

But not only is it dangerous in countries where the people have learned to be scared and distrustful of officials, it is grossly inefficient and time–consuming. The murders not only speak of a petrified, ignorant people. They are also testament to the international community's ignoring of the unfolding tragedy, and how for too long the only help came from a handful of volunteers and small aid agencies.

International health organisations have been woefully, shamefully slow to react. The World Health Organisation (WHO) failed to heed warnings about the severity of the outbreak for months. It only acknowledged the seriousness of the problem on August 8, when it finally declared a global emergency.

The Liberian government has tried to place the blame on its people, arguing that their distrust of healthcare workers, burial practices and disregard for its advice have worsened the outbreak. But that is a simplistic view. The people of these poor nations have been let down by their governments, which have failed to prioritise education and infrastructure development – and the world is now witnessing the results.

Had Ebola started in a Western country rather than Africa, the global reaction, including that of the WHO, would have been different. The West's response has been terrifyingly myopic. In the globalised world, it was only a matter of time before the infection spread to cities and, from there, to other continents. How could we have been so stupid to think that one of the world's most virulent diseases wouldn't affect us?

Currently, each infected person is infecting two more before dying or overcoming the illness. Survival rates are about 50 per cent, dropping to 10 per cent in remote areas with poor water and supplies. The epidemiology comes down to simple maths: it will not be until each infected person infects, on average, fewer than one other that the tide will reverse.

This latest outbreak – by far Ebola's deadliest to date – may in part be due to the pathological qualities of the virus, but it has sprinted ahead while global health authorities plodded along. We can only hope it is not too late to catch up.

Max Pemberton's latest book, 'The Doctor Will See You Now' (Hodder, £8.99), is available from Telegraph Books for £8.99 plus £1.10 p&p. To order, call 0844 871 1515 or go to books.telegraph.co.uk

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141013eaad00061


Business
Ebola sparks fear of 'boom and bust' in cocoa prices
Anna White
262 words
13 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
1
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
FEARS are growing that the Ebola epidemic in West Africa could spread into Ivory Coast and Ghana, where 60pc of the world's cocoa is farmed, and cause prices to surge and then crash.

Economists are warning of an "Ebola effect" on cocoa prices, which are already extremely volatile because of parasites, political instability and weather conditions. The outbreak of the virus, which has so far killed 4,000 people worldwide, could cause yet another boom and bust, consultants at PwC said.

The cocoa bean farms of West Africa, which are about to start harvesting, have suffered from a lack of investment over the past 20 years and are struggling to satisfy the growing global demand for chocolate products, according to the accountancy firm.

Cocoa prices have risen 16pc in the last 12 months, and the average price of cocoa in September is up by 30pc on same period for 2013.

"If these higher prices encourage more investment in new cocoa orchards, there could then be another bust in cocoa products in the 2020s, just as there was in the 1980s following the 1970s cocoa price boom," said John Hawksworth, chief economist at PwC.

"The challenge for both policymakers and confectionery companies will be to smooth out these boom–bust cycles, which can do great damage to the small farmers."

Soaring chocolate sales in China are also affecting supply and putting pressure on West African production, according to Thomas Bischof, marketing manager for Buhler, which produces chocolate–making machinery.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141013eaad0005o


TRAVEL
Loving Ljubljana: travel views
1070 words
13 October 2014
03:22 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Readers share their thoughts on recent stories. Send us your feedback for the chance to win flights to the Great Plain of Hungary

This week’s winner: loving Ljubljana

Ljubljana is a city with an identity crisis. It is part of the European Union, its currency is the euro, its main shopping area has a number of international high street brands, English is spoken everywhere – and it even has the requisite number of Irish pubs.

Yet, it remains typically Balkan, with a mix of Serbian, Bosnian and Greek restaurants, highly efficient and cheap public transport and numerous reminders of its medieval past – embodied best in its well-preserved castle on a hill.

Perhaps most striking has been the emphasis on free collective entertainment. All the large public spaces seemed to have a stage, featuring either a rock band (usually singing in Slovenian) or serving as a focal point for a family-oriented festival. Local beer is good and reasonably priced: there’s even a craft beer called Human Fish, a reddish-brown brew by an Australian now living in Slovenia. Such an eclectic mix sums up Ljubljana. I can’t wait to go back!

Emailed by Roger Grasby who wins two Wizz Air return flights to Ljubljana

Further feedback from readers

Magnificent museums

Claire Hayward lists her 21 reasons for loving museums (“ Travel views[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/destinations/europe/uk/11138516/21-reasons-why-museums-are-great.html] ”, October 4). I’ve no idea who Claire is but in her thoughtful and far-ranging appraisal she recognises the enormous contribution museums make to our lives.

I am an elderly widower and some years ago circumstances persuaded me to leave my home in the Yorkshire Dales and settle in London. The change in lifestyle was traumatic but the move was made infinitely easier by the wide range of museums and galleries newly available to me in this city. I fully appreciate and agree with Claire’s points and thank her for voicing them so clearly.

John Appleton

Falling for Westonbirt

I was surprised that in “ Where to see the best of the English autumn[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/destinations/europe/uk/9581827/Where-to-see-autumn-colours-around-the-UK.html?frame=2357738] ”, (October 4), you did not include Westonbirt Arboretum. Managed by the Forestry Commission, it covers 600 acres close to Tetbury in Gloucestershire.

Westonbirt is renowned worldwide for its spectacular autumn colours. There are almost 15,000 trees comprising 2,500 different types and including the tallest tree in Britain.

Most attractive in the autumn, a fiery display is provided by 2,000 specimens of maples. Rare and endangered species also grow there. In total, there are 17 miles of accessible paths and the disabled can hire mobility scooters, free of charge, in two-hour slots.

A visit to Westonbirt provides a great family day out. The facilities are good; with a shop, plant centre and a varied selection of refreshments. If the weather is reasonable it is a photographer’s paradise.

Rob Dowlman

Ghosts of Kayaköy

Further to Natalie Paris’s news story (“ Turkish ghost town for sale[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/destinations/europe/turkey/11135456/Louis-de-Bernieres-airs-concerns-over-Kayakoy-restoration.html] ”, October 4), we have been to Kayaköy many times of late, staying nearby. When walking through the ghost village you can sometimes hear the call to prayer echoing across the valley. Quite wonderful. With its farmland, orchards and fields, the valley itself is a very relaxing place to stay.

The ghost village is a special place and while some buildings are in poor repair, it will be sad if any development takes place to the detriment of the area. Some repair work has already taken place at one church. As there are quite a number of holiday cottages for rent in the valley, and some hotels, is any further touristic development required?

Paul Franklin

Venetian finds

I read with great interest your article on Venice[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/destination/italy/venice/33581/Venice-city-break-guide.html] (“Sightseeing on a shoestring in La Serenissima”, September 27) and wholly concurred.

The majority of visitors venture no farther than 100 metres from the San Marco vaporetto stop – notably to see the Doge’s Palace, St Mark’s Basilica, Piazza San Marco itself and, of course, to do the almost compulsory (and ludicrously expensive) gondola ride.

Splendid though these attractions are, this limited itinerary means that your time is more often than not spent jostling with endless parties recently disembarked from cruise ships, or day-trippers from places as far afield as Austria and Croatia.

For a modicum of effort one can leave the masses behind, even in the height of summer, and find the real heart of Renaissance Venice and, more importantly, virtually free of charge. For instance, barely a 10-minute walk from St Mark’s Square will take you to Campo San Giovanni e Paolo and the magnificent basilica of the same name. Recently I viewed here, totally alone and undisturbed, the great masters of the Italian Renaissance such as Veronese, Tintoretto, Titian and Bellini. This, I suppose, is what makes Venice so special, what gives it that magical quality; what other city gives you the opportunity to view such treasures in splendid isolation, and for so little financial outlay?

Steve Green

Win flights to Debrecen, Hungary

Telegraph Travel readers have the chance to win a pair of return flights from London Luton to Debrecen on Wizz Air, a low-cost airline offering five flights a week on the route, with fares starting at £29.99 (one way, including all taxes, non-optional charges and one small cabin bag). bag).

This lively university town on the edge of the Hungarian Puszta (Great Plain) has a youthful buzz and lively cafés and bars, and offers a fresh take on this fascinating part of central Europe. It is also prized for the quality of the surrounding thermal spa resorts – and the prowess of its horsemen (above).

For more information about Wizz Air’s routes or to book, visit wizzair.com[http://wizzair.com/en-GB/Search] or call 0907 292 0102.

How to enter

Please email relevant feedback (no more than 200 words) and contact details by midnight on October 14 to travelviews@telegraph.co.uk, or write to Travel Views, Travel Desk, The Daily Telegraph, 111 Buckingham Palace Road, London SW1W 0DT. Visit telegraph.co.uk/yourtravels for terms and conditions.

More articles on which you may wish to comment

Why Ebola screening is pointless[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/travelnews/11152303/Ebola-UK-why-screening-travellers-is-pointless.html]

Family booths, child-free zones, and iPad-enabled cabin crew: Is there a flying revolution in the air?[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/familyholidays/11151132/Family-booths-child-free-zones-and-iPad-enabled-cabin-crew-Is-there-a-flying-revolution-in-the-air.html]

Dubai's incredible changing skyline[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/familyholidays/11151132/Family-booths-child-free-zones-and-iPad-enabled-cabin-crew-Is-there-a-flying-revolution-in-the-air.html]

Great British Bake Off: baking courses in Britain and beyond[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/destinations/europe/uk/11045757/Great-British-Bake-Off-baking-courses-in-Britain-and-beyond.html]

Blackpool Airport closure 'will damage the north west'[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/destinations/europe/uk/11149084/Blackpool-Airport-closure-will-damage-the-north-west.html]

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141013eaad0015p


© 2015 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.	
 