
Factiva
Dow Jones
Features
'BRITAIN HAS TO BE PREPARED TO WALK AWAY FROM THE EU'
Peter Dominiczak
1399 words
15 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
25
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
But the new Foreign Secretary, a noted Eurosceptic, tells Political Editor Peter Dominiczak that he is now more confident of 'meaningful' restrictions on immigration – and spiking Ukip'sguns

Even 4,500 miles away in the intense heat of West Africa, the European Union is never far from Philip Hammond's thoughts. The Foreign Secretary has just spent a day seeing the devastation left in Sierra Leone by the deadly Ebola virus, but he is now on the front line of a battle to prevent a Conservative meltdown caused by the upcoming Rochester and Strood by–election.

With Vladimir Putin's aggression in Ukraine and the rise of jihadist groups such as Isil in the Middle East, Mr Hammond is struggling with the busiest overseas policy agenda faced by a foreign secretary in years. But, in the official residence of the High Commissioner in Ghana ahead of a seven–hour flight back to the UK, his focus is on the EU, immigration, and the by–election.

Ahead of Thursday's crucial vote, which the Conservatives face losing to Ukip, Mr Hammond has chosen to go further than even David Cameron in warning that Britain could leave the EU if the country does not gain control over its borders. Britain must get "substantial, meaningful reform" from Brussels ahead of the in–out referendum Mr Cameron has pledged to hold in 2017, Mr Hammond says. He makes clear that the Government is now "prepared to stand up from the table and walk away".

The next seven days will be critical for the Tories and could do more to determine the outcome of May's general election than any other time in the last four years. If the Conservatives lose badly to Ukip defector Mark Reckless – as pollsters predict – it could trigger a crisis for the Prime Minister that will lead many in his own party to conclude that they cannot win the election.

Senior Conservatives believe that the only way to confront the "existential threat" posed by Nigel Farage and Ukip is to take an increasingly hard line on immigration and EU reform.

And Mr Hammond does just that by making clear that "we have to be prepared" to leave the EU if reforms to the immigration system are resisted. "We're in the beginning stages of a negotiation and – first of all, never, never go into any negotiation unless you're prepared to stand up from the table and walk away," he says.

"We have to be prepared to. In this case it isn't even our decision because there's going to be a referendum at the end of this process.

"We have to be candid with our European Union partners as we're negotiating about what we think the verdict of the British people would be. I'd like to be telling my German counterpart honestly, if you draw the line there, I don't think we're going to get this past the British public in a referendum – but if you could move your line to there, I think we might."

When Mr Hammond replaced William Hague in July's reshuffle, it was seen as a promotion that took Britain closer to leaving the EU.

Mr Hammond is a noted Eurosceptic and has said he would vote to leave the EU if Britain is unable to achieve substantial reforms. In recent months, he has not disappointed those in the Tory party who passionately support an EU exit by saying that it is "lighting a fire under the European Union" by holding an in–out referendum.

Mr Hammond appears to concede that when he stood in Mr Cameron's Downing Street office and accepted the role of Foreign Secretary, he took it thinking Britain would ultimately leave the EU. However, following a series of behind–the–scenes negotiations with his counterparts across Europe, he now says he is "much more optimistic" that Britain can get reforms to the immigration system that will lead to a vote to stay in the EU.

He makes clear that a vote to stay in Europe is "definitely not a certainty", but adds: "I'm much more optimistic about that now than I was before I started doing this job because – perhaps I read too many newspapers – I slightly had the impression that I was going to be going into battle as a lonely voice. And what I found in fact, was that I was going in and saying this is our problem, and people were saying we completely get it, it's our problem, too."

In recent weeks, a series of European leaders including Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, appeared to torpedo Mr Cameron's attempts to reform EU freedom of movement rules. Mrs Merkel told Mr Cameron that Germany would not accept any of his demands on freedom of movement. German officials were reported to have said that they would be prepared to countenance the possibility of a "Brexit" if the Prime Minister insists on changing the rules that allow an unlimited number of EU citizens to come and live and work in the UK.

But Mr Hammond insists it is "nowhere near as black and white" as the noises off from within the Bundestag would suggest. "It isn't the case that either the Germans agree that we can have total control of our own borders, or we're never going to do a deal with the Germans," Mr Hammond says.

"If your ambition is that we have total unfettered control of our own borders to do what we like, that isn't compatible with membership of the European Union, it's as simple as that. And people who advocate that know jolly well it is not compatible with membership of the European Union. So if that's what you want, you're essentially talking about leaving the European Union."

The Foreign Secretary makes clear that his negotiations can result in Britain having the "ability to avoid the kind of destabilising movements that we've seen over the last decade or so".

It is not the case that Britain will be unable to actively reduce the number of migrants coming to the UK, Mr Hammond insists. Plans floated in recent weeks by senior Conservative sources suggested that Mr Cameron wants to announce plans for quotas – limiting the number of EU migrants who can come to the UK annually.

After those plans were firmly rejected by allies – including Germany – that idea looked to have been scrapped. But Mr Hammond suggests that the possibility of quotas in all but name is still very much an option. It is just a question of the language and tone used during the negotiations, he says.

Britain will push for a "stretched definition" of existing EU treaties, Mr Hammond says. It will allow freedom of movement rules to be altered without treaty change, something Germany has said is impossible.

Asked if the idea of imposing quotas on EU migrants is now dead, Mr Hammond says: "There are bits of language which make things more difficult. I wouldn't go into a discussion with my European colleagues talking about quotas. But I might be talking about a mechanism that delivered the same kind of outcome. But if you put a word like quota on the table, you immediately cause shutters to go up. So I think it's about exploring the ideas and engaging, talking and that's what we're trying to do now. This negotiation isn't going to begin until after the next election. What we can do at this stage is try to understand where people's red lines really are, what they're really thinking."

In an attempt to recover from the expected loss to Ukip in next week's by–election, Mr Cameron will in the coming weeks give a major speech on the EU and immigration to try to convince Ukip voters to return to the Conservative Party. The message will be that only Mr Cameron and the Tories can deliver change for those angry Ukip voters.

Some people are seeing Mr Cameron's speech as his last throw of the dice on immigration before voters go to the polls in May. According to Mr Hammond, it is a roll of the dice that may just work.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141115eabf00087


Murderer's release 'beggars belief'
664 words
14 November 2014
09:58 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Your feedback on the case of mass killer Barry Williams, Angela Merkel's warning to David Cameron and Rio Ferdinand's recent behaviour

Passport hooray

Misguided policy

Setting an example

Ebola fears

Valid opinion?

SIR – I am writing in response to the article about mass murderer Barry Williams who came close to striking again . This beggars belief.

Until the people who make these decisions are held to account when a person released early from prison reoffends then this kind of thing will continue.

If there is a proper deterrent by way of accountability then we can be reasonably sure the decision to release a prisoner early is a sound one.

Mark Stevens

Kuala Lumpur

</br>SIR – Today I received through the mail my renewed UK passport, eight days after I sent my application to the HM Passport Office. I was very happy to experience such expediency.

The reason for some surprise on my part was because I recall recent complaints regarding experiences with HM Passport Office[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/expat/expatnews/10870409/Passport-renewal-delays-causing-expat-headaches.html] . I am writing to give voice to a positive experience.

Gillian A Stewart

Surrey, British Columbia, Canada

</br>SIR – Lord Newby has suggested that middle-aged couples in large homes should be encouraged to sell up[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/property/11176899/Move-out-of-your-big-homes-and-help-society-minister-tells-over-55s.html] and downsize to smaller properties to “benefit” society. Is he as naive of the political landscape as his name suggests?

There are thousands of elderly households who would love the opportunity to join their relatives overseas but cannot do so because of the Government's frozen pension policy.

There are thousands of long-term immigrants who would like to return to their countries of origin but cannot do so because of the same policy.

Every person leaving would vacate a home for someone else, without the input of taxpayers' money. It has been estimated that every pensioner leaving would save the NHS and Treasury around £4,000 a year.

Brian Brown

Cape Town, South Africa

</br>SIR – So Rio Ferdinand's bad conduct and offensive gender remarks[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/queens-park-rangers/11196698/Rio-Ferdinand-suspended-by-FA-for-three-matches-and-fined-25k-over-inappropriate-tweet.html] continue.

While this continuation of his normal bad behaviour and lack of common sense are of no particular consequence to most of us, his proposed nomination as the FA's candidate to the FIFA ruling body is.

Sadly it seems that merit counts for very little and many far more suitable individuals will be precluded from filling this very important post to the detriment of the game in Britain.

Ferdinand has since been banned from playing, fined and ordered to attend an educational programme. In spite of all this he still keeps his place on Greg Dyke's FA commission. A great role model to all young aspiring footballers.

It is hardly surprising that the voice of British football counts for so little in the corridors of power at FIFA when the likes of Rio Ferdinand are given serious consideration for such an important and influential post.

T I Crawford

Cape Town, South Africa

</br>SIR – It seems likely that old habits of licking stamps and sealing envelopes are still widely used in West Africa.

Does this pose an Ebola risk along the snail mail route?

H McKeag

Kuala Lumpur

</br>SIR – I must take exception to the views of your correspondent, Richard Blake, of Napier in New Zealand ( "Policing the borders", Expat Feedback, Oct 31[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/expat/expatfeedback/11199164/Boris-offended-with-kippers-comment.html] ).

I am all for people being free to express their opinions, no matter how unattractive they might be to me personally, but I do not agree with someone living in New Zealand making sweeping statements about "the English folk of Britain" having lost their faith in David Cameron.

If this is true, it is acceptable for someone from Britain to say this, but not a person living in the Antipodes.

Noreen J Pryor

Yandina, Queensland, Australia

These letters were originally published inThe Telegraph Weekly World Edition.[https://secure.subsforce.com/TELE/TEL/WTDD11]For UK news, culture, opinion, business, sport and much more why not subscribe to the paper[https://secure.subsforce.com/TELE/TEL/WTDD11] ? Send your letters to the editor to weeklyt@telegraph.co.uk

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141114eabe004h8


NEWS
Pressure mounts on Red Cross over elderly volunteer axed after gay marriage protest
By John Bingham Social Affairs Editor
639 words
14 November 2014
08:19 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Campaign groups reports 50,000 messages of support for Bryan Barkley as Commons motion demands reinstatement

The Red Cross is coming under growing pressure to reinstate a long-standing volunteer who was dismissed after staging a one-man protest against gay marriage.

MPs have tabled a motion in the Commons voicing “deep concern” at the treatment of Bryan Barkley, 71, from West Yorkshire, and urging the charity to reconsider.

The Coalition For Marriage (C4M), which led the campaign against the introduction of same-sex marriage in the UK, said it had received almost 50,000 expressions of support including many messages from people speaking about boycotting the charity.

The charity said in a statement that it had not dismissed Mr Barkley “specifically because of his views on same-sex marriage” but added it was feared his stance would have a “negative impact on the way services are delivered to a particular community”.

A spokeswoman described it as "tragic" that the protests over Mr Barkley's case had diverted staff from dealing with issues such as Ebola and the Syrian crisis.

A spokesman for the campaign group said Mr Barkley, a retired civil engineer, had not specifically called for a boycott of the Red Cross but remained “deeply upset” at being dismissed after years working in its international tracing service which helps reunite families in the UK with relatives abroad.

Mr Barkley was photographed standing outside Wakefield Cathedral holding a small placard reading “No Same-Sex marriage" in May of this year when the first same-sex weddings were taking place in the UK.

He was later summoned to a meeting to be told he was no longer welcome at the Red Cross because his actions were deemed to go against its values.

An early day motion tabled by the Tory MP Philip Davies and backed by Sir Peter Bottomley, the former employment minister, and others, argues that Mr Barkley’s views on marriage had been “expressed reasonably, in his own time, and were in no way connected with his work for the Red Cross”.

Colin Hart, campaign director of the C4M said: “This is a shocking case – Bryan was a senior volunteer, undertaking very complicated and technical work for the Red Cross.

“For nearly two decades he helped to reunite people with lost family members.

“Yet after voicing his opposition to the Government’s undemocratic plans to rip up the traditional definition of marriage he was fired.

“He broke no law and his only crime seems to have been that he was one of the millions of ordinary people who opposed this change.

“There has never been any suggestion that Mr Barkley acted inappropriately while at the charity, or even pushed his views while volunteering.

“Indeed just 24 hours before he was notified of a disciplinary meeting, he attended a garden party at Buckingham Palace with other volunteers, employees and supporters of this organisation."

A Red Cross spokeswoman said: “The British Red Cross is working internationally tackling enormous issues like the Ebola crisis, Syria and the food crisis in South Sudan

“Orchestrated actions like this inevitably divert us from our humanitarian mission.

“Tragically it has taken up vital staff time and resources away from our international mission and in the UK.”

She added: "We have said repeatedly that we respect the right of individuals to hold personal views so long as this does not affect their ability to deliver our services impartially to all who need our help, as enshrined in our fundamental principles.

"Where there are serious concerns the British Red Cross has no option but to act.

“We cannot give further details about any specific circumstances because we have a duty of confidentiality in matters like this.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141113eabd004h5


FASHION
Naomi Campbell clears out her closet for Ebola
By Bibby Sowray
526 words
14 November 2014
07:19 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The supermodel will open a pop-up shop in Westfield London selling designer clothes previously owned by her and her famous friends to raise funds for the fight against Ebola

Naomi Campbell is doing her bit for the fight against Ebola – by selling her second-hand clothes.

From November 28, the supermodel will set up shop in Westfield London for one week allowing customers to buy not only her pre-worn designer duds but those of her many stylish friends too, with all profits going towards Ebola prevention and education.

Those who have donated clothing include Campbell’s good friend Kate Moss, with more high-profile names promised. Customers can also expect brand new designer pieces at exclusive prices, and items purchased will earn shoppers the chance to win a one-off celebrity item each day in a special Golden Ticket lottery.

The shop is part of Campbell’s Fashion For Relief foundation, which she founded in 2005 as a way of generating funds for disaster relief through fashion shows, auctions and pop-up shops. She has previously raised money for the victims of Hurricane Katrina, the Haiti earthquake in 2010 and the Japan earthquake and tsunami in 2011.

READ: Naomi Campbell and Bruce Forsyth team up for Fashion for Relief in Cannes [http://fashion.telegraph.co.uk/news-features/TMG8517750/Naomi-Campbell-and-Bruce-Forsyth-team-up-for-Fashion-for-Relief-in-Cannes.html]

"I'm thrilled to return to Westfield London to launch the Fashion For Relief pop-up store," said Campbell. "Raising awareness for Ebola and educating about its prevention is crucial to help prevent the spread of this deadly disease. We hope the Fashion For Relief store will raise much-needed funds and awareness, whilst offering amazing pieces at accessible prices."

The Streatham-born beauty has also hinted that she will stage two Fashion For Relief catwalk shows[http://fashion.telegraph.co.uk/article/TMG11151252/Naomi-Campbells-Fashion-for-Relief-to-tackle-Ebola.html] in New York and London next February during the city’s respective fashion weeks. The 44-year-old recently told Page Six that she is "scared" of the virus, and that she owns a home in Kenya and works with three orphanages there. "Ebola does not discriminate," she said, adding that as a black woman she feels a responsibility to fight the crisis.

“We are absolutely delighted to be working again with Naomi Campbell and her Fashion For Relief initiative to support worthy cause that’s affecting so many lives,” said Myf Ryan, Westfield’s director of marketing for the UK & Europe. “In 2011, Westfield London hosted the first Fashion For Relief pop-up store which raised over £20,000 in one week. This year, the store will be bigger and better with hundreds of designer pieces on sale. We have no doubt it will be a brilliant success.”

The temporary store will be located in The Village section of the White City shopping centre for one week from November 28 to December 4. It will launch with a VIP preview as part of Vogue Gold Night Out on 27th November. To be in with a chance to win a pair of golden tickets and to have a chance to shop the store on the VIP preview night visit www.westfield.com/london.[http://uk.westfield.com/london/]

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141114eabe003jx


NEWS
British dogs will not be put down if their owners get Ebola
By Georgia Graham Political Correspondent
813 words
14 November 2014
06:23 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Official advice comes after widespread protests when the Spanish Government put down the pet dog of a nurse who had been infected with the virus

British dogs will not be put down if their owners get Ebola and expose them to the virus, according to official Government guidance issued by the Department of Health.

The Department of Health has issued official guidance which says the idea that the animals of anybody in the UK who gets Ebola are also at risk is a myth.

Instead, the advice says that pets of people with Ebola will not be immediately put down but will instead be quarantined to ensure they have not themselves contracted the disease.

It comes after there was widespread outrage that Excalibur, the dog of a Spanish nurse who was contracted the virus was put down after Spanish authorities claimed it could have spread the disease.

Teresa Romero Ramos survived the deadly virus after she became the first person to contract it outside Africa while treating two infected missionaries.

She and her husband were quarantined but her dog was not offered the same treatment and was put down at the beginning of October[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11150085/Spanish-Ebola-nurses-dog-put-down-despite-campaign.html] .

Spanish people were so angry that the dog had been put down 100,000 people sign petition calling for Spain's health minister to quit over the order to kill Excalibur.

The advice reads: "Myth – If anybody in the UK gets Ebola, any animals they own are also at risk.

"There is thought to be a low risk that companion animals (particularly dogs) in developed countries, can become infected with Ebola and then transmit it to other people.

"However, there are plans in the UK, to quarantine dogs that may have been exposed to Ebola, should that be necessary."

The American Veterinary Medical Association put out official guidance this week emphasising that animals have not contributed to the outbreak of the virus in West Africa.

It says that pets should be quarantined if they have been in close contact with someone infected with Ebola. If the pets test positive for the lethal virus, they should be put down.

The American advice recommends that pets should be confined to a crate or kennel inside a secure facility and stripped of all clothing and collars that could have possibly been contaminated.

Other Ebola myths the department of health wants to bust

(all Myths and Facts from the NHS advice sheet sent to NHS organisations to use with their communities and staff[https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/374730/Ebola_-_mythbuster.pdf] .)

Myth – You can catch Ebola from sitting next to someone

Fact – You can’t catch Ebola simply by sitting next to someone on a plane or public transport, touching a surface they have touched or even shaking hands. People are not infectious until the symptoms develop and even if they do develop, the virus can only be spread through bodily fluids, so the chances of the general public catching Ebola are extremely low.

Myth – If someone with Ebola sneezes or sweats on you – you will catch it

Fact – Ebola is not like flu – it is not spread through the air in coughs and sneezes. It can only be caught through very close contact with an infected person’s bodily fluids – like blood, vomit, diarrhoea or semen.

A person is only contagious when they are very ill and have symptoms – at this stage they are likely to be vomiting or suffering from diarrhoea. The risk to the general public is low – Ebola is not spread easily.

Myth –There is currently no known cure for Ebola

Fact – People can survive Ebola, such as British nurse Will Pooley. There was one outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo in 2002-2003 in which the fatality rate reached 90 per cent - but the current outbreak has a mortality rate of about 55 per cent. Once infected, it can take between 2 and 21 days for symptoms to show.

There is currently no cure, but Ebola patients given fluids and food have a better chance of survival.

Myth – I shouldn’t eat any food from West Africa

Fact – There is no known case of Ebola making someone ill because they’ve eaten or handled fruit or vegetables.

Fresh food from West Africa can still be safely imported as people only get the virus through direct contact with bodily fluids. We do not currently have plans to review this position.

Myth – The NHS has drugs to treat Ebola – Will Pooley got them

Fact – There is currently no cure or vaccine. Will Pooley was given an experimental drug called ZMapp but at this stage, its effectiveness has not been proved. Blood products from survivors are also being tried as a potential therapy.

A vaccine is currently being developed and we are hopeful that we will be ready in 2015.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141114eabe001xp


Ebola: how can expats protect themselves?
By Peter Pallot
754 words
14 November 2014
04:47 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
There are services to rescue you but options shrink rapidly if you become seriously ill

The vital importance of swift action in suspected Ebola cases is outlined in a stark warning from the world's biggest medical assistance company.

The message for thousands of expats in affected parts of West Africa is to act immediately if they want airlifting to the best treatment centres. Once the illness develops further, a medical evacuation is likely to be ruled out.

Treatment outside the affected countries is important to maximise the patient's chance of survival. International SOS, which specialises in transporting patients, has declared a "limited" ability to transfer patients once they display active symptoms.

Dr Katie Geary, medical director of International SOS, said: "Rapid evacuation of suspect cases is the key. The more advanced the case the more complicated is the evacuation until at some point it becomes unachievable."

It is likely to become impossible if patients have any uncontrolled body fluids, such as vomiting, diarrhoea or bleeding.

But suspect cases displaying no symptoms are dealt with in a routine manner, albeit with extensive additional precautions for aircrew and medics. International SOS, which employs 12,000 staff in global operation bases, has evacuated several cases. These include two Dutch doctors who had been working in West Africa.

The doctors had been operating on patients in Yele, a remote area of Sierra Leone. They were flown from the capital Freetown to Schiphol Airport in Amsterdam by the company. Onward transport to Leiden University Medical Centre was organised by the Dutch Institute for Public Health. There, tests showed the doctors were clear of the virus.

Dr Geary said: "PPE (personal protection equipment) had failed or was limited and the decision was taken to fly them back to Holland – but they ended up being negative. We have flown out (other) suspect, asymptomatic cases with significant epidemiological exposure. They were near an area of an Ebola outbreak."

Whether patients are flown to South Africa, Europe or America depends on several factors, said Dr Geary. These include the patient's home state, time zones, logistics and the complexity of the case. Most advanced countries have at least one unit ready to accept Ebola patients. In the UK, the Royal Free Hospital in north London is set up.

Transporting an infectious and ill patient several thousand miles, with medical attendants, and road ambulances to and from airports, usually costs around £65,000. Hospitals and clinics in West Africa are themselves rated as danger zones. Consequently, medically-insured expatriates requiring any treatment can expect to receive it elsewhere.

All reputable international medical insurance companies have a contract with a good international assistance provider. International SOS, with 1,200 full-time medics, operates for 80 per cent of major multinationals – although all assistance companies tend to co-operate in a local crisis. Examples include terrorist bombings, tsunamis, earthquakes, major road accidents and Ebola-style emergencies.

Other assistance companies seem to be even more cautious than International SOS. Allianz Assist operates for the insurer Allianz Worldwide Care. The insurer said its partner was not removing "suspected or confirmed" confirmed Ebola cases. "In the case of suspected or confirmed Ebola cases, we would liaise closely with our clients and brokers to see whether there is any possibility of military medical evacuation via support from the patient's local embassy and home government."

Insurer Axa-PPP International – which has millions of members worldwide and its own assistance provider – said movement of patients would become increasingly difficult. A spokesman said: "If Ebola is suspected or diagnosed, members should anticipate that they will not be allowed to exit the country and they are likely to be admitted to a local Ebola treatment centre. Assistance companies will be subject to the rules of local and international health authorities and will face severe sanctions if transporting ill patients from these countries if not in complete compliance with regulations."

Every effort would be made by Axa-PPP, they said. "However, we cannot guarantee to overcome these realities."

The World Health Organisation says grounds for rating a case as suspect are onset of high fever and having had contact with a suspected, probable or confirmed Ebola case or a dead or sick animal.

Other grounds, it continues, are "any person with sudden onset of high fever and at least three of the following symptoms: headaches, anorexia/loss of appetite, lethargy, aching muscles or joints, breathing difficulties, vomiting, diarrhoea, stomach pain, difficulty swallowing, hiccups".

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141114eabe002pd


Letters: Ed Miliband may seem useless, yet he’ll still become prime minister
1778 words
14 November 2014
02:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Miliband's future; the British aid promise; Tower poppies without stems; and a Petit Prince comet

British aid promise

Sale of ceramic Tower poppies without stems

State-run banks

Conservative chaos

Petit Prince comet

The most versatile of British film actors

One-stop supermarket

SIR – Because the hapless Ed Miliband is so bad, the Tories should work to preserve him as leader of the Labour Party as a kind of morality tale – that is the suggestion Boris Johnson[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/politics/11219697/Ditching-Ed-Miliband-will-not-change-the-fact-that-socialism-has-no-relevance-these-days.html] made earlier this week. This view is dangerously smug.

The spread-betting websites, which have been excellent predictors of elections both here and in the United States, currently predict, by a small margin, that Mr Miliband will be the next prime minister.

Michael Schewitz

London N2

SIR – Ed Miliband’s address to his apparatchiks puts me in mind of Iain Duncan Smith’s promise to the Conservative party conference when he said that “the quiet man is here to stay and he’s turning up the volume”.

Mr Duncan Smith has since transformed himself into a very successful Secretary of State for Work and Pensions. As for Ed Miliband, it may be doubted that, on the basis of his latest performance, he has any such future.

Alec Ellis

Liverpool

SIR – I note from his latest relaunch speech that Ed Miliband is promising to take on the “vested interests” and “powerful forces” in this country. Trade unions first, then?

Graham Jones

Tytherington, Cheshire

SIR – Ed Miliband told the BBC that he had just been auditioning to become our next prime minister; yet for over four years when he has had the opportunity to question the Prime Minister on our behalf, he has asked nothing but “have you stopped beating your wife” non-questions, from which we have learnt nothing.

If he can’t ask intelligent questions, what hope has he got of gleaning the right answers, if he should ever become prime minister, when he would have to rely on the knowledge of experts, with different political leanings, on virtually every subject?

Brian Christley

Abergele. Denbighshire

SIR – Mr Miliband says that his job is an audition for the part of prime minister. Well, thanks Ed, don’t ring us…

John Newman

Pattishall, Northamptonshire

SIR – My reluctance to vote for the Conservatives is based on David Cameron and his ministers making speeches one day contradicted by their actions the next.

In this area of Somerset, we were told by Mr Cameron that money was no object in dealing with the floods. But, as I write, the poor souls affected last year are under threat again.

Why would I vote for more of this? But then, why would I vote for Ed?

Stuart G Pullen

Monkton Heathfield, Somerset

</br>SIR – Philip Hammond is misguided in his comments[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/politics/11227503/Law-to-protect-foreign-aid-rejected-by-Foreign-Secretary-Philip-Hammond.html] about the aid law passing through Parliament.

This Bill enjoys cross-party support. Enshrining Britain’s aid promise in law would deliver the 2010 manifesto pledge of all three main political parties as well as the Coalition agreement.

We should be proud that Britain has reached this international target. This law puts life-saving aid beyond politics, guaranteeing that 0.7 per cent of gross national income is spent on aid each year, linked to economic performance, until it is no longer needed. The Bill would also move the debate from “How much aid?” to “How can we use aid most effectively?”

This Bill sends a signal to developing countries that we will keep our aid promise to them. It reminds other rich countries that they too must meet their aid targets.

British aid saves lives and changes lives every day. Philip Hammond is witnessing that first-hand in Sierra Leone where Britain leads the fight against Ebola. However, humanitarian aid alone is not enough. Enshrining the target in law will enable future British governments to make smart long-term investments that address the root causes of poverty.

Ben Jackson

Chief Executive, Bond

Brendan Cox

Director of Policy and Advocacy, Save the Children UK

Chris Bain

CEO, Cafod

Jehangir Malik

UK Director, Islamic Relief

Juliet Milgate

Director of Policy and Advocacy, Sightsavers UK

Aaron Oxley

Executive Director, RESULTS UK

Amy Dodd

Coordinator, UKAN

Bert R Smit

CEO, ADRA-UK

Diane Sheard

UK Director, The ONE Campaign

Justin Byworth

CEO, WorldVision UK

Loretta Minghella

Chief Executive, Christian Aid

Margaret Batty

Director of Policy and Campaigns, WaterAid

Rose Caldwell

Executive Director of Concern Worldwide (UK)

Simon O’Connell

Executive Director Elect, Mercy Corps

Tanya Barron

CEO, Plan UK

</br>SIR – I wonder how many people purchasing one of the poppies from the installation at the Tower of London realised they would receive only the ceramic head.

Wendy Rainford

Brayton, West Yorkshire

SIR – I have just discovered that only the heads of the poppies will be sent to the buyers, without the stems, many of which have weathered in the rain.

I bought poppies for family members in the belief that we would receive the poppy head together with a stem and the washers so that we could reconstruct them for our own memories. I don’t care if the stems have weathered – in fact, it would add to their authenticity.

Fiona Todd

Radlett, Hertfordshire

SIR – Following our visit to the truly breathtaking display at the Tower of London, we tried, unsuccessfully, to buy one of the ceramic poppies.

We fully understand the significance of limiting the number of poppies to 888,246 for this work of art, but we would urge the artist and organisers to continue producing and selling poppies until public demand is sated. Not doing so will lead to the inevitable profiteering that will take place via online auction sites.

Tony Hunter

Solihull, West Midlands

SIR – While my wife and I were visiting the beautiful poppy display, the woman standing next to us observed: “I wonder what will happen to them all? I suppose some will end up on eBay.”

Those who may not wish to keep their poppy on the mantelpiece for ever could indeed re-sell it, donating the proceeds to the Royal British Legion and other charities.

A single poppy could thus generate donations totalling many times its original £25 price, while giving others a chance to take part in this unique tribute.

Stephen Kemp

Tilton on the Hill, Leicestershire

</br>SIR – Extra taxes, regulation and demands for much greater capitalisation are unlikely to make banks attractive to investors. It is the people and banking culture that need to be reformed.

If we fire at the wrong targets we will find that there are precious few investors prepared to put their money into banks, whether as depositors or shareholders.

We are in danger of ending up with state-run banks that direct business according to the political colour of the current government. Is this what the authorities are really aiming for?

Alexander Hopkinson-Woolley

Bembridge, Isle of Wight

SIR – As the wonders of electronic banking were ushered in through the door of the finance industry, the morals were ushered out through the window.

Time for a clear-out.

J A Whitmore

York

SIR – Shakespeare has Dick the Butcher, accomplice of Jack Cade, the leader of the Peasants’ Revolt, say: “The first thing we do, let’s kill all the lawyers.”

If Shakespeare were alive today would he write: “We’ll sort out the bankers”?

Denis Durkin

Lewes, East Sussex

SIR – The bankers involved in the foreign-exchange scandal would, perhaps, do well to heed the report of the Committee of the House of Lords on the Causes of Commercial Distress: “The best banking system may be defeated by imperfect management; and, on the other hand, the evils of an imperfect banking system may be greatly mitigated, if not overcome, by prudence, caution, and resolution.”

The date of this report? 1848. It would appear that some things never change.

David Hearn

Wallasey, Wirral

</br>SIR – It is unfair to blame the Speaker[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/crime/11223563/John-Bercow-is-to-blame.html]for Monday’s chaos in the Commons.

The fault lies squarely with the Government. It controls business and decides the motions that are debated. It cannot, therefore, reasonably complain if the motions it sets down for debate are not wide enough to discuss matters it believes to be relevant.

Indeed the Speaker was generous in the latitude that he allowed to the Home Secretary. The normal Commons rule is that debate must be strictly on the subject set down on the order paper. Anything else is disorderly and members are regularly stopped by the Speaker and his deputies if they wander from the central point.

The Government was warned on Friday by the chairmen of two select committees, one a Eurosceptic the other a strong pro-European, that the procedure it intended to adopt would not cover the European Arrest Warrant. The Government chose to ignore this and similar warnings and has no right to squeal when it has been found out.

Jacob Rees-Mogg MP (Con)

London SW1

</br>SIR – I am sure my sense of déjà-vu on seeing the photograph taken from the Philae lander of the 67P comet was shared by generations of aficionados of Antoine de Saint-Exupéry’s novella Le Petit Prince.

Christopher Prince

Stocksfield, Northumberland

SIR – Congratulations to the brilliant scientists who, after its 10-year journey, touched down the Philae lander on the 67P comet. Maybe these brilliant minds could now give thought to redesigning my small tea pot, which persists in pouring most of the contents on to the tray and just a little into my cup.

Peter Dace

Cuffley, Hertfordshire

</br>SIR – While I greatly admire Michael Caine’s considerable talent, I cannot accept Anne Billson’s judgment (Arts, November 12) that he is “the best, most important, and most versatile film star that Britain has ever produced”.

In terms of quality and quantity, and extraordinary versatility, no British star can match the record of John Mills, who appeared in more than 120 films. He played with distinction the widest possible variety of characters, ranging from heroic figures, such as the title character in Scott of the Antarctic, to an Oscar-winning performance as the village idiot in Ryan’s Daughter.

John Cottrell

Addlestone, Surrey

</br>SIR – I see Sainsbury’s is considering letting out concessions[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/newsbysector/retailandconsumer/11226674/Sainsburys-were-ready-to-take-on-Tesco.html] in some of its larger stores to make better use of the selling space.

May I suggest it could do much worse than incorporate an Aldi in each of its stores. It would make our shopping expeditions so much easier, as we still prefer Sainsbury’s multi-seed bread, and its car parks are so much more commodious.

Paul Harrison

Terling, Essex

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141114eabe001mf


News
Aid agency holds trials of drugs to combat Ebola
Colin Freeman
177 words
14 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
18
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
THE aid agency Médecins Sans Frontières is to begin a series of clinical trials of drugs and other potential cures for Ebola patients in West Africa.

The agency will use three of its network of treatment centres in Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia to carry out testing of drugs and blood products that scientists are developing to fight the virus.

Clinicians would not normally carry out such trials during a humanitarian crisis, but they say the scale of the outbreak is so serious that there is no choice.

One of the trials is being conducted by staff from Oxford University, who are using the antiviral drug brincidofovir, which inhibits a virus's ability to multiply. In Gueckedou in Guinea, the French National Institute of Health and Medical Research will experiment with another antiviral drug, favipiravir.

Another trial, conducted by the Antwerp Institute of Tropical Medicine in the Guinean capital, Conakry, will take place using blood and plasma products developed from the blood of Ebola survivors.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141114eabe0006k


Features
Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative
448 words
14 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
21
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Fighting the Ebola crisis in West Africa by training villagers how to stop the deadly virus spreading

The spread of Ebola in West Africa has reached crisis point. Nearly 5,000 people have died and more than 13,000 people have been infected, while the number of unreported cases is expected to be at least double that. Nobody can say for certain how far it has, or will spread in the coming months. Reports that some areas are ''Ebola free'' or that the danger is receding are regarded as premature by many public health experts. The US Centers for Disease Control has claimed there could be 1.4 million cases by January.

Currently hundreds of thousands of community care workers need to be trained across Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea – as well as 15 further "at risk" countries identified by the World Health Organisation – to bring the disease under control.

The Masanga Mentor Initiative has been created to meet the shortfall in training: a partnership formed between the UK–funded Masanga Hospital in Sierra Leone, and the Mentor Initiative, which is a British NGO, established in Liberia, with substantial training experience and contacts world–wide.

The network is led by British medical and aid specialists who have worked together for 20 years in humanitarian emergencies and are an established part of the international crisis effort already. The aim is to help educate communities across the region about infection control and to discourage practices, rituals and behaviours that are helping to spread the virus.

The training packages are being developed by healthcare workers on the ground and can be easily distributed, to even the most inaccessible rural locations across Sierra Leone and Liberia.

Training is focused on tablet–based interactive programmes that can be understood in local languages and make use of animation where adult literacy rates are low.

It will be delivered by local people, helping to rebuild the trust between healthcare workers and desperate communities that has been damaged in some areas.

Ebola survivors are key to managing the disease because they are believed to be immune. The partnership will work closely with survivors to help teach others in their community.

Currently the mortality rate is 70 per cent, but it is hoped through better education this can be halved.

The next few months are critical. By Christmas, training will be underway in Masanga Hospital and nine other partner hospitals (which represent 20 per cent of the primary healthcare in Sierra Leone), as well as the slums of Monrovia.

Beyond that, it will be rolled out across West Africa with lasting impact on the current epidemic, future outbreaks, and other infectious diseases.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141114eabe0004h


Features
Be generous to three exceptional causes
Richard Preston
701 words
14 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
21
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Christmas charity APPEAL

Today we launch our annual Christmas charity appeal and once again ask readers to give generously to three exceptionally deserving causes. Every year we select three charities that we believe will be deserving recipients of your donations, large or small, and every year you respond with instinctive goodwill.

The Daily Telegraph has made appeals on behalf of good causes for more than a century – 100 years ago, the Christmas appeal raised money for the relief of Belgian civilians who had suffered in the first German assaults of autumn 1914.

In its modern format, this is the 25th year of The Telegraph Appeal and we hope that together we can match or exceed the sums raised in recent years. Your generosity has been remarkable – close to £23 million has been raised in the past two and a half decades for more than 70 charities – and has had a truly transformative effect on the lives of those in need.

In selecting this year's charities – Medical Detection Dogs, The Abbeyfield Society and The Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative, whose work is described below – we have, as always, looked for organisations with proven abilities and which, with additional funding, will be able to develop their work to assist more people. Each is performing urgent work that will benefit immediately from your support.

Over the next two months, we will report on the charities' work, tell the stories of people they have helped and describe what they hope to achieve in the coming years.

Last year, our readers gave more than £735,000 to our causes, once Gift Aid was reclaimed, and all three charities were profoundly grateful for the money raised and for the chance to explain their work in detail to a large readership.

The Not Forgotten Association, a tri–service charity for the wounded and injured, received its largest ever single donation from last year's appeal. "The excellent coverage also enabled some of the NFA's wounded beneficiaries or those with disabilities to tell their stories, an encouragement to others who are embarking upon their own rehabilitation after injury," says Piers Storie–Pugh, chief executive.

The NFA was also able to lay on new events for more veterans, including a 94th anniversary concert in The Royal Hospital Chelsea, which more than 200 veterans attended, and battlefield tours to Cassino in southern Italy to mark the 70th anniversary of the battle.

Thanks to the generosity of readers, thousands of children in developing countries have received a life–changing operation at the hospitals of Cure International UK. Children who had little hope for the future have been transformed into children who can run, play and smile. Families who endured being labelled cursed for having a disabled child are set free from social stigma. The funds raised also helped to provide an additional orthopaedic surgeon at the Cure children's hospital in Ethiopia.

"As a charity we doubled in size during the appeal," says Hélène Frost, executive director. "We were struck by the significant number of readers who respect the due diligence of The Daily Telegraph and continue to support their chosen charities."

For Chicks, the appeal ensured greater stability and security for the future in its work giving precious respite breaks to disadvantaged children. The charity is operating close to full capacity at its two retreats but is now in the process of purchasing and equipping a third, in the Peak District, due to open in late summer next year.

"That will allow us to reach out to many more disadvantaged children, giving them memories and experiences they'll treasure forever," says Elanor Hoskin, the charity's chief executive.

Richard Preston

ÞOur charity phone–in day will be Sunday December 7, when you can call a member of The Telegraph staff and make a credit or debit card donation – last year we raised some £120,000 on the day, once Gift Aid was reclaimed. If you are a UK taxpayer, charities can reclaim 25p for each £1 you give.

The Telegraph

To watch videos about the work of the three charities below, go to telegraph.co.uk/charity

TELEGRAPH CHRISTMAS CHARITY APPEAL

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141114eabe0004e


News
Clegg rebukes Tory colleague over foreign aid commitment
Ben Riley–Smith
364 words
14 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
12
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
NICK CLEGG has rebuked a Cabinet colleague who said that enshrining in law a commitment to spend 0.7per cent of GDP on international aid is "bizarre".

The Deputy Prime Minister suggested Philip Hammond, the Conservative Foreign Secretary, was tearing up his own party's manifesto by opposing the move.

He issued the rebuke after Mr Hammond told journalists accompanying him to Sierra Leone that putting the aid commitment into law was like ordering someone to create a building that has already been built.

On his weekly LBC radio programme, Mr Clegg accused Mr Hammond of reneging on his own party's promises.

"I think what is a little bizarre – to put it as diplomatically as I can – is that the Foreign Secretary, a Conservative, should go to Sierra Leone to tear up his own manifesto. It was a Conservative party manifesto commitment to legislate on this commitment of devoting 0.7 per cent of our national income."

Mr Clegg said the Foreign Secretary's distancing of himself from the pledge was "a measure of quite what's happened to the Conservative Party over the last several years".

He added: "They used to believe in the environment, they used to believe in helping people on the other side of the world and now they're claiming it's bizarre. It was their own idea."

He was responding to comments Mr Hammond made while visiting a series of British–led projects assisting in the battle against Ebola, which has killed almost 5,000 people in west Africa.

Any new law would commit the Government to spending more than £12billion annually. Mr Hammond said: "Trying to enshrine it in law – it's a bizarre idea. Somebody says shall we have a law that says you've got to build a building.

"Think about it – in the meantime we built a building. Someone comes along and says now we've built it shall we pass the law which says we've got to do it? We've done it. We're doing it. You don't need a law to say we're doing it."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141114eabe0001e


NEWS
Sierra Leone surgeon with Ebola to become first non-US citizen to be flown to America for treatment
By Agencies
323 words
13 November 2014
10:39 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Unnamed surgeon, who is a US resident, will be taken back to America for treatment after contracting deadly virus treating patients in Sierra Leone

A surgeon infected with Ebola in Sierra Leone will be flown to the University of Nebraska Medical Center for treatment.

The surgeon was born in Sierra Leone but is a US resident.

University of Nebraska Medical Center officials declined to confirm the report but said in a statement that a patient who contracted the disease in Sierra Leone was being evaluated for possible treatment at the hospital.

"He will be evaluated by the medical crew on the Phoenix Air jet upon their arrival in Sierra Leone," the hospital said. "The members of the crew will determine whether the patient is stable enough for transport - if he is, he would arrive in Omaha sometime Saturday afternoon."

The man is currently in Sierra Leone, and a jet will fly to the West African nation to transport the man to the United States if he is well enough to travel.

CNN said the man was a surgeon, but it was not clear how he may have contracted the disease. The news network said he is married to a US citizen and has several children.

The Nebraska Medical Center's biocontainment unit is one of only a handful of hospitals in the United States with facilities to treat Ebola.

Nine people have been treated for the killer virus in the United States, but only one - Liberian-born Thomas Eric Duncan - has died from the disease on US soil.

There are currently no cases of Ebola in the country today.

West Africa is battling the deadliest Ebola outbreak ever, which has killed more than 5,100 people and infected nearly 15,000 in total, mostly in hardest hit Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141114eabe000jh


Celebrities like Amy Childs are not the only ones who bluff and bluster
By Judith Woods
699 words
13 November 2014
09:59 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
I feel nothing but sympathy for the reality TV star - most of of us lie to seem cleverer

Here’s a quick litmus test of your humanity. When you heard that the reality TV celebrity Amy Childs mistakenly thought Ebola was the name of an up-and-coming band [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/celebritynews/11225971/Quiz-pop-band-or-deadly-disease.html] did you: a) laugh, b) have to Google her and then laugh, or c) recall your own youthful callowness back in the day when you referred to Evelyn Waugh as “she” and thought George Eliot was a man?

I felt nothing but sympathy for the Jessica Rabbit look-alike, who had turned up to add to the gaiety of an awards ceremony and found herself hijacked by a comedian.

When the former Only Way Is Essex star was asked on camera by Jolyon Rubinstein, presenter of spoof series The Revolution Will Be Televised, what she thought about the spread of Ebola, the 20-year-old was flummoxed. To be fair, it was a slightly left-field question for a ritzy glitzy red carpet. But Childs, better known for her cantilevered embonpoint than her overview of the Filoviridae viruses, wasn’t rattled for long and took an uneducated but not unreasonable guess as to the topic under discussion.

“You know Ebola is going to be huge don’t you?” asked the interviewer, homing in on her discomfiture. “I might be a big fan after tonight, I think it will be absolutely amazing,” she responded.

Before you laugh (all right, after), let he or she who has never bluffed to impress their audience cast the first aspersion. Research last year revealed that eight in 10 people routinely lie to seem cleverer and more attractive and it’s a well-established fact that two thirds of people pretend to have read their way through the canon of literary greats such as Madame Bovary, Ulysses, War and Peace and Nineteen Eighty-Four.

Facebook is founded on the three pillars of fibbage, bombast and towering mendacity and much of Twitter comprises a load of pseuds recirculating other people’s pensées in an effort to appear connected, in touch and interesting.

If that sounds harsh, it isn’t meant to (well not that much) because as humans we are programmed to gather and assimilate and share information. The modern world is changing at such a pace as to be unrecognisable; we’ve come a long way since 1911 when Encyclopedia Britannica could loftily, justifiably, lay claim to be the sum of all human knowledge. We can’t know everything about everything – or even anything about everything – so we wing it. Of course we do. Or at least we wing it until there’s Wi-Fi, when we Wiki it.

So we should spare a thought for high-profile figures who have to produce an answer on the spot.

The former US basketball player Shaquille O’Neal was once asked if he had visited the Parthenon during a visit to Greece. His historic rejoinder? “I can’t really remember the names of the clubs that we went to.”

When quizzed about his politics, Justin Bieber did his best to fudge the issue: “I’m not sure about the parties. But whatever they have in Korea, that’s bad.”

And poor Paris Hilton once found herself at such a rare loss when talking to the media about Wal-Mart, she couldn’t even begin to bluff: “Do they, like, make walls there?”

Ouch. There’s an argument that Amy Childs (who, despite her name and her cluelessness, is actually a grown-up) ought to have been familiar with Ebola, given the extent of the news coverage.

I’m pretty sure that of course she knew what it was, but after a day being spray-tanned and backcombed and then poured into her frock like quick-drying cement, her brain was addled with chemicals.

And besides, having Googled it, I can confirm there is actually a hard rock group called Ebola, hailing from Thailand. And if they do go huge, well, I think the last laugh will be Childs’s, don’t you?

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141113eabd000xf


Editorial; Opinion, Columns
Celebrities are not the only ones who bluff and bluster
JUDITH WOODS
687 words
13 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
24
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Here's a quick litmus test of your humanity. When you heard that the reality TV celebrity Amy Childs mistakenly thought Ebola was the name of an upand–coming band did you: a) laugh, b) have to Google her and then laugh, or c) recall your own youthful callowness back in the day when you referred to Evelyn Waugh as "she" and thought George Eliot was a man?

I felt nothing but sympathy for the Jessica Rabbit lookalike, who had turned up to add to the gaiety of an awards ceremony and found herself hijacked by a comedian.

When the former Only Way Is Essex star was asked on camera by Jolyon Rubinstein, presenter of spoof series The Revolution Will Be Televised, what she thought about the spread of Ebola, the 20–yearold was flummoxed. To be fair, it was a slightly left–field question for a ritzy glitzy red carpet. But Childs, better known for her cantilevered embonpoint than her overview of the Filoviridae viruses, wasn't rattled for long and took an uneducated but not unreasonable guess as to the topic under discussion.

"You know Ebola is going to be huge don't you?" asked the interviewer, homing in on her discomfiture. "I might be a big fan after tonight, I think it will be absolutely amazing," she responded.

Before you laugh (all right, after), let he or she who has never bluffed to impress their audience cast the first aspersion. Research last year revealed that eight in 10 people routinely lie to seem cleverer and more attractive and it's a well–established fact that two thirds of people pretend to have read their way through the canon of literary greats such as Madame Bovary, Ulysses, War and Peace and Nineteen Eighty–Four.

Facebook is founded on the three pillars of fibbage, bombast and towering mendacity and much of Twitter comprises a load of pseuds recirculating other people's pensées in an effort to appear connected, in touch and interesting.

If that sounds harsh, it isn't mean to (well not that much) because as humans we are programmed to gather and assimilate and share information. The modern world is changing at such a pace as to be unrecognisable; we've come a long way since 1911 when Encyclopedia Britannica could loftily, justifiably, lay claim to be the sum of all human knowledge. We can't know everything about everything – or even anything about everything – so we wing it. Of course we do. Or at least we wing it until there's Wi–Fi, when we Wiki it.

So we should spare a thought for high–profile figures who have to produce an answer on the spot.

The former US basketball player Shaquille O'Neal was once asked if he had visited the Parthenon during a visit to Greece. His historic rejoinder? "I can't really remember the names of the clubs that we went to."

When quizzed about his politics, Justin Bieber did his best to fudge the issue: "I'm not sure about the parties. But whatever they have in Korea, that's bad."

And poor Paris Hilton once found herself at such a rare loss when talking to the media about Wal–Mart, she couldn't even begin to bluff: "Do they, like, make walls there?"

Ouch. There's an argument that Amy Childs (who, despite her name and her cluelessness, is actually a grown–up) ought to have been familiar with Ebola, given the extent of the news coverage.

I'm pretty sure that of course she knew what it was, but after a day being spraytanned and backcombed and then poured into her frock like quick–drying cement, her brain was addled with chemicals.

And besides, having Googled it, I can confirm there is actually a hard rock group called Ebola, hailing from Thailand. And if they do go huge, well, I think the last laugh will be Childs's, don't you?

Comment on Judith Woods's view at telegraph.co.uk/personalview

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141113eabd00043


NEWS
Dad's Army: MoD to call up the over-50s
By Ben Farmer and Keith Perry
605 words
13 November 2014
06:55 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The maximum age for some part-time soldiers to join the reserves has been raised to over 50

Over fifties will now be able to sign up as part-time soldiers after the Government raised the maximum allowable age to join, it was disclosed.

The moves comes as Army reservist recruitment figures were attacked as “shocking” and “embarrassing” after the ranks of part-time soldiers grew by just 20 in the past year, despite a Government drive to sign up thousands.

Julian Brazier, Minister for Reserves rejected claims that lifting the upper age limit from 43 to 52 for former regular soldiers wanting to join the reserves was a sign of desperation to meet recruitment targets. The army has also raised from 45 to 50 the age limit for civilians with specialist skills, such as a language or a medical background, who want to become an officer in the reserves.

“It is one more example of intelligent modification of the process,” Mr Brazier said. “Before, somebody would automatically get excluded if they were over age. Now we want to see what they are applying for.”

But Commanders were accused of “Dad’s Army” desperation, with one former officer telling The Times[http://www.thetimes.co.uk/tto/news/uk/defence/article4267352.ece] : “They will take anyone with a pulse.”

The latest Ministry of Defence manning figures show the number of Army reservists rose from 19,290 to just 19,310 despite a multi-million pound recruitment campaign.

The MoD insists it is still on track to grow the Army’s reserve forces from 19,000 to 30,000 by 2019, as the number of regular troops is cut by 20,000.

Growing, re-equipping and retraining the Army’s reserve forces is a cornerstone of the Coalition’s cost-cutting defence reforms.

But Labour labelled the figures as “woefully low”.

Vernon Coaker MP, shadow Defence Secretary, said: “The Government should be worried and embarrassed by these shocking figures which show an increase of just 20 in the number of trained Army Reserves in the last year.

"It's clear that these plans are failing and there is a real concern that Britain's Armed Forces could be left with a dangerous capability gap as a result."

In the past six months the Army signed up 2,130 reservists, but with many also leaving, the overall size of the force barely changed.

The National Audit Office, Parliament’s spending watchdog, earlier this year said the MoD may not hit its target until 2025, six years behind schedule.

Senior military officers admit the recruiting campaign got off to a “very bad” start last year, but insist they are still on track to hit their targets.

Mr Brazier said reservists were making a “tremendous and growing contribution” in Afghanistan, in the fight against Ebola and in civil crises like this year’s flooding.

He said: “We have always recognised that reinvigorating our Reserve Forces would not be achieved overnight. However, one year into our five year plan we are making steady progress and seeing increased numbers joining the reserves.”

Under the MoD’s own targets, the reserve should grow to 19,900 by April next year after that the targets grow rapidly.

One Whitehall source said: “No one is panicking yet. Let’s see what it looks like in the Spring.”

An MOD spokesman said: “We make no apology for revising the age requirements for ex-regular soldiers to join the Reserves and share their wealth of knowledge and expertise. All recruits have to meet strict fitness requirements, or could face discharge.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141114eabd00001


John Major's Berlin Speech: the full text
By John Major
3367 words
13 November 2014
03:38 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The former PM tells Germany that Britain might leave the EU. Read his stark warning here.

Twenty-five years ago this week, the Berlin Wall came down. German was reunited with German – and an arbitrary and brutal division of Europe was, at last, at an end. It was a great moment in European history – a triumph of freedom over repression. Of humanity over barbarism. It brought a great nation together, and paved the way for Europe to widen and grow. I rejoiced then and I rejoice now. And yet, on this anniversary, another great nation may be poised to leave the European Union. Let me state my own conviction from the outset. I have not a shred of doubt that the UK is far better off inside the European Union as an active member. And I will work hard to achieve that end. I know that, during the 40 years of our membership, we have never been a comfortable partner. Within our country, there has always been a dissenting minority, unhappy at our place in Europe, and eager to persuade us to leave. As the EU has moved from economic to political co-operation, that minority of malcontents has grown. In England, which is 85% of the population of the United Kingdom, opposition has reached a critical mass and now, for the first time, there is a serious possibility that our electorate could vote to leave the EU. I put the chance of exit at just under 50%. But if the negotiations go badly that percentage will rise. Conversely, with genuine reform, it will fall. I ask our European partners to realise we are close to a breach that is in no-one’s interest. Britain’s frustration is no game. It is not a political ploy to gain advantages and concessions from our partners. There is a very real risk of separation that could damage the future of the United Kingdom – and Europe as a whole. That is why I so welcomed your invitation to speak here this evening. I know of no better platform to sound the alarm that the United Kingdom and the European Union are at risk of parting company: and that, if we do, the outcome will diminish us both.

Many in my country disagree, including serious figures who cannot be disregarded. Nigel Lawson, a former Chancellor of the Exchequer, argues that the UK is “marginalised” outside the Eurozone, and that any renegotiation of our Membership will be “inconsequential”. Some other economists, businessmen and senior politicians agree with that view. The United Kingdom Independence Party – which was set up to force the UK out of Europe – now stands in the polls as our third largest political Party. The point is this: frustration with our membership of the EU is widespread – and growing. It is no longer argued only by fringe opinion.

In these circumstances, many wonder why the Prime Minister has offered an “In-Out” Referendum, when the outcome may be to leave. Let me explain why I believe he is right to do so.

First, the UK is a democracy. We cannot ignore public opinion and, if we did, antipathy to the EU would be sure to grow. We need to confront this alienation, face it down, and make the case for our active membership. Throughout my political life, disputes over our place in Europe have distorted British politics, and it is time to settle our future relationship once and for all. This can only be done if our membership is re-endorsed by our current electorate. If it is, the British Government will have a fresh mandate to exercise our full influence in Europe. If it is not, they will have no choice other than to obey our electors – and leave.

When I spoke here 22 years ago, I spoke of my ambition of Britain being “at the heart of Europe”. This was mis-interpreted to imply that I was a closet federalist. That was not true then – and is not true now. I do not want Britain to lose her national identity. I want a Europe in which Britain will always be Britain. And Germany will be Germany.

What is true is that – if we work together – Europe can increase her standing in the world. No European nation alone can match the giant states of America and China, but collectively we can – and I believe our European influence is beneficial. I want reform in the EU to make it more compatible with nation states. I wish to see it lift itself from its economic woes. I wish its influence to grow in foreign policy, and in its contribution to our collective security. A thriving EU can secure a better, safer and more prosperous future for our children and grandchildren. But, for millions of Europeans, we are far from that dream.

The new Commission faces immense problems. I wish it well. It has a big job to do. No-one can pretend the EU is working as we hoped. Growth is too low. Unemployment is cruelly high. There are fundamental policy disagreements between leading nations. Some policy that is agreed is not implemented. Other policy, hotly resisted by some nation states, is imposed on them by a majority. At this moment, if it were not for growth in services, Southern Europe would face deflation – and it yet might. All is not well.

These are among the reasons why we need reform in Europe – and not just for the UK, but for all 28 Member States. Of course, there are unique British challenges at the moment, but the ideas of greater competitiveness, subsidiarity and democratic legitimacy work for everyone – and not just us. That said, despite its shortcomings, the EU has surely outperformed the expectations of its founders: in a mere fifty years, it has become one of the three power houses of our modern world.

Yet, as seen from Britain, it has often shown a lofty disdain for the sensitivities of nation states. That is one reason why opinion in Britain is so unsettled. There are others: Our history. Our Parliament. Our national character. And our frustration has grown as the EU has evolved. The advent of the Eurozone will inevitably lead to further policy integration. But the UK is not in the Eurozone, and I cannot conceive we are likely to join. So, to allay concerns, we need to be clear how non-euro members will be treated. It will not be acceptable for the Eurozone to integrate further, and then use its bloc vote to impose its voluntary integration on unwilling non-Eurozone members. We are not prepared to accept “ever-closer” union: that has only one destination – and for us there is a limit.

Every British Government I have known, or been a part of, is prepared to work with our partners on the big issues that can strengthen Europe. We have done so many times. But our people deeply resent interference in the day to day activities that have been part of the British way of life for generations. This is not a new emotion. Nor is it unique to my own country. Over 20 years ago, as Prime Minister, I raised this issue at Maastricht and – with the powerful support of Germany – wrote the principle of subsidiarity into the Treaty. Subsidiarity was intended to ensure that things should only be done by the European Union if they cannot be done by the Nation State. In rulings, the ECJ treated subsidiarity as a policy test, not a legal limitation. Past Commissions – and Parliaments – disliked this restraint, and by-passed the provision from the outset. If they had not done so – if it had been honoured with the same fervour as some other parts of the Treaty – much of the public discontent across Europe might have been avoided. Subsidiarity needs to be restated, made legal, and enforced with rigour.There are other big issues at stake – none more controversial than freedom of movement.

Free movement of people is a core principle of the Union and that must be so: if we agree on free movement of capital and a free market, we cannot deny free movement. Nor, as a matter of economic self-interest, should we: across the EU, with its low birth rate and ageing population, our economies need young migrants with skills to power our economies. I hear it said by eminent Europeans that freedom of movement is sacrosanct. It is one of the four freedoms set out in the founding Treaty. The argument is that if we tamper with freedom of movement, the other freedoms will fall. I understand that view but it has a flaw. Twenty five years after the Single European Act, the other founding freedoms are not fully honoured by the EU. Not one of them. If freedom of movement is immutable, when will member states complete the Single Market? When will they end closed shops and protectionism, and open their markets to British services – especially our professional services? When will they fully integrate capital markets? Or the energy market? Or digital? Need I go on? If these had been implemented in full, then Britain’s case on free movement would be weakened. But they are not.

And the UK case on free movement is as compelling as it is misunderstood. And it is misunderstood. It is a matter of numbers. Whereas some European populations are falling, the UK has grown by 7% in a decade. Matching migrants to the size of host countries, the UK has accepted one of – if not the – largest population movement in peacetime European history. That is our problem.

It is easy to see why the UK is such an attractive option. We are an open society, with a flexible and open labour market. We have a popular language. We have a comprehensive welfare system. We are probably the most diverse nation in the EU, and London may be the most cosmopolitan City in the world. Many new arrivals are able to join existing communities of their fellow nationals.

All this, I understand. I am not surprised that so many migrants wish to improve their lifestyle by moving to the UK. It is a tribute to my country that they wish to do so. And, if the numbers can be absorbed, we welcome them. But the sheer scale of the influx has put strains on our health, welfare, housing and education services that we struggle to meet – and has held down wages for many of the poorest members of our society.

I hate having to make this argument. I hate it. As a boy, I was brought up among immigrants in South London. They were my friends and my neighbours. I have huge admiration for people prepared to uproot themselves to find work and a better way of life for themselves and their families. It takes a great deal of courage to do so. They deserve a warm welcome – not a chilly rebuff. I do not wish to close our doors to strangers – especially strangers with skills from countries that are often allies. But I do recognise – reluctantly – that our small island simply cannot absorb the present and projected numbers at the current speed: it is not physically or politically possible without huge public disquiet.

I hope our European partners will understand our dilemma, and help us to find a solution. As large net contributors to the Budget for 40 years, we expect such a national dilemma to be treated with consideration – it can only inflame resentment if we are told our concerns are non-negotiable and we must toe the line. We do not seek to end free movement – far from it: but, while the pressures are uncontainable, we do seek to qualify it. And – let me be frank – so would any country facing the migratory pressures confronting the UK. The EU has a well-merited reputation for pragmatism. It can pass a camel through the eye of a needle if it wishes to do so. If France breaches her deficit limits – and this is not unknown – we all know time will be granted for France to meet her obligations: no one doubts an accommodation can be found. That genius for pragmatism – for compromise – is needed now.

It is not too fanciful to say that our partners must weigh up a choice: help us on this issue, or deny us – knowing that the latter course can only fuel the Eurosceptic argument.

And let me make a wider point. Cross-border migrancy is not just a problem for the UK. The sheer volume of migration across Europe is alienating European citizens from their Governments in other countries, too. In Greece. In France. In Hungary. In Poland. In Sweden. In Finland. In Italy. It is powering the rise of single issue political parties whose convictions are alien to a liberal and civilised society. Some are racist: others are border-line racist. Some are merely bigots.

This is our fault, as Europeans. We have allowed this problem to arise, and been deaf to public concern. And this concern has been voiced in my country, your country and all across Europe.

I made clear earlier that I spoke as a pro-European who wishes the UK to stay in the EU. As I see it, the case for our membership is political as well as economic. Our membership of Europe is part of our deeper commitment to engage with the world. Historically, Britain has always looked outwards.

We share with Germany a belief in an open trading system. We share with France action to support global security. Our economic, political, human and cultural links with the world are extensive. Our membership of the EU helps us shape the world – not be shaped by it. It should be inconceivable for us to step back from such influence into a lesser relevance – but the current public mood reflects the aims of those who look inward, not outward.

Once divorced from Europe, we would have a diminished voice in the world – a lesser voice with our allies, and in every international forum. The UK would sink to a lower level of importance in the world. For the first time in 300 years, we would become a diminished European power. The doors along the corridors of international power would begin to close to us.In any event, as a matter of process, the UK cannot simply walk out. We would need to negotiate our exit, and accept the on-going obligations that have arisen during our membership. If we leave, we would no longer have unfettered access to the Single Market. Perhaps we could negotiate an arrangement similar to Norway or Switzerland but, if we did, we would have to accept EU regulations we had no part in framing. Departure would be a setback for our freedom of action, not an enhancement to it.

As a trading nation our wellbeing depends on inward investment – now running at record levels. I ask a simple question of those who wish us to leave: would companies from around the world be more – or less – likely to invest in the UK if we were no longer part of the European Union? The answer is obvious: a European market of 500 million is far more attractive to investors than the British market of a mere 70 million. That is why investors as far apart as America in the West to Japan in the East urge us to stay in. But our departure would not only diminish the UK. It would diminish the European Union as well. Europe would lose its second-largest – and, currently, most buoyant – economy, and its most convinced free trading nation. It would lose the nation with the longest, widest, and most historic foreign policy reach. And it would lose one of only two European nations with a significant military capability and nuclear capacity. As the European Union seeks to keep its place alongside America and China as a dominant influence in the world, it would be seriously diminished by the departure of the United Kingdom. And to my friends in Germany, I would add one further point: you would lose the one European Nation whose economic instincts most closely resemble your own.

Britain has often been the odd man out in Europe. But I do not accept that by challenging the consensus we become poor Europeans. Europe needs grit in the oyster – and that has often been the British role. Few people deny that the EU needs reform. I want the UK to play a positive role in that – as we have so often in the past. The Single Market in the 1980s was a British notion; expansion to the East was an Anglo-German policy in the 1990s; so was subsidiarity. We pressed for CAP reform. We advocated foreign and security policy. We led with France on Libya – and Germany on Ukraine. We led on mobilising a response to Ebola with a large military deployment. We argue for structural reforms to promote growth. We seek more democratic procedures. Historically, our role has been positive, not negative. I say to any European critic: do not judge my country only by our present concerns: judge us also by our long-term actions. And to my fellow countrymen I say: do not believe the myth that we are always dragged along by the European consensus: we are not. Not at all.

The UK must soon begin negotiations with her partners. European leaders say repeatedly they cannot imagine the EU without the UK: that is encouraging to hear. If it is borne out then all will be well. I hope both sides will approach the negotiations with care: with a determination to find a solution – not justify a breach. Wise negotiators will tone down the oratory and turn up the diplomacy.

I do not expect the UK to ask for a large number of opt-outs, of special exceptions for the UK alone. But I do expect them to ask for exemption from the narrative of “ever closer union”. I do expect them to look for a timetable to implement reforms previously agreed. I do expect them to ask for a pragmatic approach to freedom of movement. I do expect them to look for reforms of interest to other Member States, who should regard our renegotiation as an opportunity for their own countries as well as mine. Can appropriate reforms be negotiated? I hope so. I believe so – but success will depend upon the mindset of Member States. The UK must decide how much she wishes to leave – and our partners must decide how much they wish us to stay. What we must all realise is that a divorce may be final. Absolute. A reconciliation would be unlikely. Twice last century, Europe was at war. It was a bleak period in all our histories. As I stand here this evening, such a conflict would be unthinkable. Our children and grandchildren will never fight one another, and that is because – in more recent times – we have built a unity in Europe that has never been known before. Today, our world is changing fast, and we in Europe must change with it. Divided, we are pygmies in a world of giants. United, we are one of the giants.

I believe that – with sensible reform – we can make the European Union more harmonious, more competitive and more influential. We all know that must be done. If we utterly fail in this endeavour, we may well part. But that must be as a final resort – and we are far from that.

We should not anticipate failure. In a world drawing closer together, Europe should not splinter. The UK and the European Union can agree a way forward and, in the mutual interest of us all – in this generation and the next – we must do so.

It may not be easy. It may require give and take on both sides. But the prize is very great indeed.

Politicians may fail. But Statesmen should not. Let us all hope that Statesmanship prevails.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141113eabd004k9


NEWS
'Shocking' recruitment figures show Army Reserve barely growing
By Ben Farmer Defence Correspondent
403 words
13 November 2014
02:27 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Army Reserve grew by only 20 in the past year, latest figures show

Army reservist recruitment figures have been attacked as “shocking” and “embarrassing” after the ranks of part-time soldiers grew by just 20 in the past year, despite a Government drive to sign up thousands.

The latest Ministry of Defence manning figures show the number of Army reservists rose from 19,290 to just 19,310 despite a multi-million pound recruitment campaign.

The MoD insists it is still on track to grow the Army’s reserve forces from 19,000 to 30,000 by 2019, as the number of regular troops is cut by 20,000.

Growing, re-equipping and retraining the Army’s reserve forces is a cornerstone of the Coalition’s cost-cutting defence reforms.

But Labour labelled the figures as “woefully low”.

Vernon Coaker MP, shadow Defence Secretary, said: “The Government should be worried and embarrassed by these shocking figures which show an increase of just 20 in the number of trained Army Reserves in the last year.

"It's clear that these plans are failing and there is a real concern that Britain's Armed Forces could be left with a dangerous capability gap as a result."

In the past six months the Army signed up 2,130 reservists, but with many also leaving, the overall size of the force barely changed.

The National Audit Office, Parliament’s spending watchdog, earlier this year said the MoD may not hit its target until 2025, six years behind schedule. [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/defence/10891715/Army-plan-in-chaos-as-cuts-undermine-security.html]

Senior military officers admit the recruiting campaign got off to a “very bad” start last year, but insist they are still on track to hit their targets.

Julian Brazier, Minister for Reserves, said reservists were making a “tremendous and growing contribution” in Afghanistan, in the fight against Ebola and in civil crises like this year’s flooding.

He said: “We have always recognised that reinvigorating our Reserve Forces would not be achieved overnight. However, one year into our five year plan we are making steady progress and seeing increased numbers joining the reserves.”

Under the MoD’s own targets, the reserve should grow to 19,900 by April next year after that the targets grow rapidly.

One Whitehall source said: “No one is panicking yet. Let’s see what it looks like in the Spring.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141113eabd0048v


NEWS
Nick Clegg hits back at Philip Hammond in new foreign aid row
By Ben Riley-Smith Political Correspondent
419 words
13 November 2014
12:18 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Deputy Prime Minister claims Foreign Secretary is ripping up his own party's manifesto by opposing putting the pledge to spend 0.7 per cent of Britain's GDP on aid in law

Nick Clegg has hit back at claims from his Coalition colleague Philip Hammond that enshrining a commitment to spend 0.7 per cent of Britain's GDP on international aid in law is "bizarre".

The Deputy Prime Minister suggested Mr Hammond was tearing up his own party's manifesto by opposing the move.

The rebuke comes after the Foreign Secretary told journalists accompanying him to Sierra Leone[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/politics/11227503/Law-to-protect-foreign-aid-rejected-by-Foreign-Secretary-Philip-Hammond.html] that putting the aid commitment in law was like ordering someone to create a building that has already been built.

But the Deputy Prime Minister used his weekly LBC radio show to accuse the Foreign Secretary of reneging on his own party's promises.

"I think what is a little bizarre – to put it as diplomatically as I can – is that the Foreign Secretary, a Conservative, should go to Sierra Leone to tear up his own manifesto. It was a Conservative party manifesto commitment to legislate on this commitment of devoting 0.7% of our national income," he said

Mr Clegg said the Foreign Secretary's distancing of himself from the vow was "a measure of quite what's happened to the Conservative party over the last several years".

"Four and a half years later, they used to believe in the environment, they used to believe in helping people on the other side of the world and now they're claiming it's bizarre. It was their own idea."

He was responding to comments Mr Hammond made while visiting a series of British-led projects assisting in the battle against Ebola, which has claimed almost 5,000 lives in west Africa.

Any new law would commit the Government to spending more than £12 billion annually.

However, Mr Hammond said: “Trying to enshrine it in law – it’s a bizarre idea. Somebody says shall we have a law that says you’ve got to build a building.

“Think about it – in the mean time we built a building. Someone comes along and says now we’ve built it shall we pass the law which says we’ve got to do it? We’ve done it. We’re doing it. You don’t need a law to say we’re doing it.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141113eabd002hb


NEWS
Clinical trials of new Ebola drugs to start in December
By Colin Freeman
427 words
13 November 2014
10:37 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Clinical trials of three potential Ebola treatments will begin next month in Guinea and Liberia at medical centres run by Medecins Sans Frontieres

The aid agency Médecins Sans Frontières is to begin a series of unprecedented clinical trials of drugs and other potential cures for Ebola patients in west Africa, it was announced on Thursday.

The agency will use three of its network of treatment centres in Guinea[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/guinea/], Sierra Leone and Liberia to carry out testing of drugs and blood products that scientists are developing to fight the virus, which currently has no known cure.

Clinicians would not normally carry out such trials in the midst of a humanitarian crisis, but say the scale of the Ebola outbreak is so serious that there is no other choice.

One of the trials is being by staff from Oxford University, who are using the antiviral drug brincidofovir, which inhibits a virus's ability to multiply. Up to 140 consenting patients will take the tablets twice a week over a two week period, in a bid to reduce Ebola's current mortality rate of between 50 and 80 per cent. Meanwhile, in Gueckedou in Guinea – the centre of the original outbreak – the French National Institute of Health and Medical Research will experiment with another antiviral drug, favipiravir.

The antivirals were selected from a shortlist drawn up by the World Health Organization after a review of previous trials on animals.

Professor Peter Horby, the chief investigator with International Severe Acute Respiratory and Emerging Infection Consortium, said: “Conducting clinical trials of investigational drugs in the midst of a humanitarian crisis is a new experience for all of us, but we are determined not to fail the people of west Africa."

Another trial, conducted by the Antwerp Institute of Tropical Medicine at an Ebola treatment clinic in the Guinean capital, Conakry, will take place using blood and plasma products developed from the blood of Ebola survivors, whose antibodies were able to fight off the infection.

“This is an unprecedented international partnership which represents hope for patients to finally get a real treatment against a disease that today kills between 50 and 80 per cent of those infected,” said Dr Annick Antierens, who coordinates the investigational partnerships for MSF.

The first trials are expected to get under next month, with initial results available by February. At present, those treating Ebola victims in west Africa are able to do little other than alleviate the symptoms, which include chronic vomiting and diarrhoea.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141113eabd003ea


News
Law to protect aid budget rejected
Peter Dominiczak
564 words
13 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; Scotland
4
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
PHILIP HAMMOND has rejected a "bizarre" plan to enshrine in law Britain's commitment to spend billions of pounds every year on foreign aid.

The Foreign Secretary's comments could prompt a row with the Liberal Democrats, who are attempting to force through legislation committing the Government to spending 0.7 per cent of GDP on foreign aid.

Mr Hammond said there is no need for a new law because the Government is already spending 0.7 per cent, which is a United Nations target.

He was speaking in Sierra Leone, where he visited a series of British led projects assisting in the battle against Ebola, which has claimed almost 5,000 lives in west Africa.

Any new law would commit the Government to spending more than £12billion annually.

However, Mr Hammond said: "Trying to enshrine it in law – it's a bizarre idea. Somebody says shall we have a law that says you've got to build a building.

"Think about it – in the mean time we built a building. Someone comes along and says now we've built it shall we pass the law which says we've got to do it? We've done it."

Mr Hammond conceded that many voters are "sceptical" about foreign aid spending. However, he said that they must accept it because it helps to protect Britain from global "catastrophes" like Ebola.

The Ebola outbreak currently ravaging parts of West Africa shows that billions of pounds of British taxpayers' money must continue to be spent on aid projects across the world, he said.

"The scepticism that some people have about the aid budget, which I absolutely recognise... I don't think has ever been directed at emergency aid. I've never detected in Britain at all people saying we shouldn't be sending food aid or disaster relief or earthquake relief."

Mr Hammond added: "In the round, people have some questions about the way the aid budget is used and we've got to keep making the case that it is in Britain's interest and we will keep making the case."

The Conservatives and Lib Dems promised in the 2010 Coalition agreement not just to meet the UN target but also to ensure it was made a legally–binding commitment for the future.

But despite the target being hit, aid campaigners have been frustrated at the absence of legislation. Politicians who have called for the legislation have accused the Conservatives of not sticking to the agreement because of Right–wing members of the Tory Party who oppose greater levels of foreign aid spending.

There has also been growing criticism that millions of pounds of British money intended to be used as foreign aid has been siphoned off by corrupt regimes in developing countries.

Mr Hammond said: "In countries that are corrupt, and that's a lot of countries in the world, some of everything gets siphoned off in corruption and the aid budget isn't excepted."

He made the comments as he toured Sierra Leone yesterday to see the impact the British Armed Forces are having in the fight against Ebola, which has infected at least 14,000 people in West Africa.

Mr Hammond said that without the British intervention in Sierra Leone, more than a million people could have been infected, potentially putting Britain at risk.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141113eabd00095


News; Front Page
Law to protect foreign aid rejected
Peter Dominiczak
992 words
13 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
1,4
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
British forces to help combat spread of Ebola

PHILIP HAMMOND has rejected a "bizarre" plan to enshrine in law Britain's commitment to spend billions of pounds every year on foreign aid.

The Foreign Secretary's comments could prompt a row with the Liberal Democrats, who are attempting to force through legislation committing the Government to spending 0.7 per cent of GDP on foreign aid.

Mr Hammond said there is no need for a new law because the Government is already spending 0.7 per cent, which is a United Nations target.

Mr Hammond was speaking in Sierra Leone, where he visited a series of British led projects assisting in the battle against Ebola, which has claimed almost 5,000 lives in west Africa.

Any new law would commit the Government to spending more than £12billion annually.

However, Mr Hammond said: "Trying to enshrine it in law – – it's a bizarre idea. Somebody says shall we have a law that says you've got to build a building.

"Think about it – – in the mean time we built a building. Someone comes along and says now we've built it shall we pass the law which says we've got to do it? We've done it. We're doing it. You don't need a law to say we're doing it."

Mr Hammond conceded that many voters are "sceptical" about foreign aid spending. However, he said that they must accept it because it helps to protect Britain from global "catastrophes" like Ebola.

The Ebola outbreak currently ravaging parts of West Africa shows that billions of pounds of British taxpayers' money must continue to be spent on aid projects across the world, he said.

"The scepticism that some people have about the aid budget, which I absolutely recognise... I don't think has ever been directed at emergency aid.

"I've never detected in Britain at all people saying we shouldn't be sending food aid or disaster relief or earthquake relief.

"It's never been that bit of the programme. It's been the, 'We'll invest over two decades in education in India, economic development in East Africa'. It's that bit of it that people sometimes question.

"But I'm sure the British people always feel very well–disposed to the disaster relief."

Mr Hammond added: "In the round, people have some questions about the way the aid budget is used and we've got to keep making the case that it is in Britain's interest and we will keep making the case."

The Conservatives and Lib Dems promised in the 2010 Coalition agreement not just to meet the UN target but also to ensure it was made a legallybinding commitment for the future.

But despite the target being hit, aid campaigners have been frustrated at the absence of legislation. Politicians who have called for the legislation have accused the Conservatives of not sticking to the agreement because of Right–wing members of the Tory Party who oppose greater levels of foreign aid spending.

The Lib Dems earlier this year tabled a private member's bill to put the United Nations target on to the statute book and urged all parties to swing behind the legislation.

There has also been growing criticism that millions of pounds of British money intended to be used as foreign aid has been siphoned off by corrupt regimes in developing countries.

Mr Hammond said: "In countries that are corrupt, and that's a lot of countries in the world, some of everything gets siphoned off in corruption and the aid budget isn't excepted."

Figures earlier this year disclosed that Britain hiked its aid spending by more than any other country in Europe last year.

Foreign aid soared by 28 per cent last year, meaning the UK hit its target of spending 0.7 per cent of GDP on overseas development. It left Britain with the second most generous aid budget in the world, outstripped only by the United States.

Mr Hammond made the comments as he toured Sierra Leone yesterday to see the impact the British military is having in the region. He visited an Ebola treatment centre being constructed by soldiers from the Royal Engineers and local workers in Port Loco, a town at the epicentre of the outbreak.

Mr Hammond also visited a football stadium in Freetown, the country's capital, where he saw British troops training locals in how to combat the disease without becoming infected themselves.

He said that now that UK troops are out of Afghanistan, more military resources could be devoted to assisting countries such as Sierra Leone when they are trying to combat deadly diseases or natural disasters.

More than 800 British soldiers are currently based in Sierra Leone. There have been more than 14,000 cases of Ebola in West Africa already.

However, experts believe the true figure could be significantly higher because many people are not reporting cases of the disease.

Mr Hammond said that without the British intervention in Sierra Leone, more than a million people could have been infected, potentially putting Britain at risk. "This is a major health emergency. There's a real risk that if there isn't a major intervention to contain this epidemic, that it would become uncontrolled," he said.

"The consequences then, particularly for West Africa but much more broadly for the world, would be catastrophic.

"There is an absolute need for this intervention. The UK has stepped up to the plate in a big way.

"What we're doing in Sierra Leone is exemplary."

The Foreign Secretary also said that he has secured an agreement with GSK, the pharmaceutical company, which could allow trials of an Ebola vaccine by next month.

14,000 The number of Ebola cases diagnosed in west Africa. 800 British troops are already helping aid teams in Sierra Leone

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141113eabd0005q


News
Ebola kills more than 5,000 in West Africa
130 words
13 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
20
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
World Bulletin

More than 5,000 people have died from the Ebola outbreak.

The World Health Organisation yesterday said that 14,098 people are believed to have been infected with the virus, the vast majority of those in the West African countries of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. Of those, 5,160 have died. There are some signs that the rate of new infections may be slowing in Guinea and Liberia, but infections are surging in Sierra Leone, it said. The agency also said there are still areas of Liberia and Guinea where transmission remains high.

It said the unprecedented tolls were likely to be an underestimate because many sick people have been too afraid or unable to seek care.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141113eabd0002t


NEWS
What Britain wants from the G20 summit
By Steven Swinford
403 words
13 November 2014
01:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
With the G20 summit in Brisbane starting soon, we run down what is set to be on the agenda

David Cameron will tomorrow arrive in Australia ahead the G20 summit in Brisbane, where during his three day visit the economy, ebola and Russia’s continued incursions into the Ukraine will all be high on the agenda.

Russia and Ukraine

Mr Cameron’s most tense meeting during the G20 summit is likely to be with Vladimir Putin. The Prime Minister has made clear that Russia is “ripping up the rulebook” in the Ukraine and its actions cannot be allowed to go unchecked. He will warn Mr Putin that he faces further economic sanctions.

The Economy

One of Britain’s biggest priorities is to help the G20 group meet its pledge to raise global growth by 2 per cent more than currently expected by 2020. Mr Cameron’s message to world leaders will be that they should focus on tackling their deficits and investing in infrastructure. The Prime Minister will also urge action to crackdown on tax avoidance, with greater sharing of information and co-operation.

EU trade deal with the US

Mr Cameron and Mrs Merkel, the German Chancellor, will mount a joint push to secure an historic trade deal between the European Union and the US. Similar agreements have already been reached with other nations including Canada, but securing the deal with the US would hold “huge benefits” for both sides.

Ebola

Mr Cameron has repeatedly urged the world to do more to tackle Ebola, pointing out that some nations are spending less than Ikea on tackling the disease. He is expected to urge them to invest more in helping ebola-stricken countries like Sierra Leone to help stop the spread of the disease and its potential threat to the rest of the World.

Isil

Both Australia and Britain are key players in the fight against Isil in Syria and Iraq. Mr Cameron will meet Tony Abbott, the Australian Prime Minister, before the summit and the ongoing conflict is likely to be a topic for discussion. Mr Cameron is also expected to raise the battle against Isil in his address to the Australian Parliament in Canberra.

Growth

David Cameron will urge world leaders to tackle their deficits and invest in infrastructure as they seek to increase global growth by 2 per cent.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141113eabd000s0


NEWS
Wealthy foreign tourists and business people to be given fast track British visa
By Steven Swinford Senior Political Correspondent
598 words
12 November 2014
07:01 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
David Cameron says the service, which costs foreigners £600 to use, is "good news for British business and tourism" and will help attract greater investment

Wealthy foreign tourists and businessmen and women will be offered a 24 hour fast track visa service to encourage them to come to Britain, David Cameron has announced.

Ahead of his visit to Australia for the G20 summit, Mr Cameron announced that the scheme will be extended from India and China to seven other countries including South Africa, the United Arab Emirates, Thailand and the Philippines.

The fast-track visa service will also be extended to New York in a move which will appeal to US bankers and executives, and also be offered in Paris.

Mr Cameron said that the visa service, which costs foreigners £600 to use, is "good news for British business and tourism" and will help attract greater investment.

It comes as the government is struggling to meet its target to reduce net migration to "tens of thousands" by 2015.

Mr Cameron said: "As part of our long-term economic plan, we are determined to do everything we can to back business, support investment and create jobs.

“We are already taking action on that front including cutting corporation tax to the lowest rate in the G7 but we’ve got to keep listening to business about what more we can do to support them. And this new 24 hour service is another way we can help – it will persuade more business travellers, investors and tourists to visit Britain, to trade with Britain and to expand in Britain.

“This is good news for British business and tourism, helping us to build a more resilient economy and secure a brighter future for Britain."

The Prime Minister's visit to Australia begins tomorrow, when he will address 150 business leaders with Tony Abbott, the Australian Prime Minister. He will use the opportunity to promote British engineering companies and consultancy firms looking to play a key part in Australia's infrastructure plans.

He will then travel to Canberra to address the Australian Parliament on Friday, before heading to Brisbane for the summit itself.

The focus for Britain will be on helping secure EU trade deals with the US, as well encouraging other major economies to tackle their deficits amid growing concerns about the state of Eurozone economies.

He will also hold a meeting with Vladimir Putin, the Russian President, when he is expected to confront him over further incursions in the Ukraine. Mr Cameron has warned that Russia's actions risk taking the World to the brink of a new Cold War.

Britain also wants to secure more support in the battle against islamic state terrorists in Syria and Iraq, as well as press other countries to do more to tackle Ebola.

The new "Super Priority Visa Service" – already on offer in China and India – guarantees a decision on visa applications within 24 hours.

It is being rolled out in foreign cities where there is a high demand for travel to Britain. The UK is the second most visited destination for travellers from the UAE, who spend an average of £2,486 per visit. Last year 75,000 Thai tourists spent a total of £117million in Britain.

All applicants must meet the strict requirements of our immigration rules and applying for a visa to enter the UK through the 24 hour service does not in any way guarantee a visa application will be successful.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141113eabd0005p


Quiz: pop band or deadly disease?
By Helena Kealey
205 words
12 November 2014
01:18 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
As Amy Childs mistakes Ebola for a pop group, we ask: is this a pop band or deadly disease?

Amy Childs made a name for herself as the ditzy beautician on the reality TV program, The Only Way is Essex.

But now, for a short while at least, she will be known as the girl who mistook the deadly Ebola virus for a pop band, rather than the disease that has so far claimed the life of nearly 5,000 people in Africa.

BBC presenter Jolyon Rubinstein asked the TV star at an awards ceremony London last month: “Have we done enough to prevent the spread of Ebola?” To which a perplexed Miss Childs replied: “What?”

Changing tack, Mr Rubinstein then said: “You know Ebola is going to be huge, don’t you?” To which Miss Childs responded: “I might be a big fan after tonight… I think it will be absolutely amazing.”

Laugh all you like at Miss Childs, but you might find that some of these bands sound awfully like they could be deadly diseases and vice versa. What we want to know is: which is this?

To play on your phone, click here.[http://www.playbuzz.com/telegraph10/pop-band-or-deadly-disease]

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141112eabc003ec


NEWS
Can you crack the world's first Latin crossword?
By Nick Squires Rome
511 words
12 November 2014
06:19 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
With the launch of the world's first Latin puzzle book, see how well you can fare in the ancient language

For anyone who has mastered cryptic crosswords and is looking for a new challenge for exercising the old grey matter, it could be just the thing - the world's first crossword and puzzle book in Latin.

Enthusiasts in Italy – the ancestral home of Latin – have launched “Hebdomada Aenigmatum”, which translates as "Weekly Puzzles" in English, a compendium of crosswords, word games, Sudoku and puzzles, all in the language of Caesar and Cicero.

The magazine, which despite its title is published monthly, has been a surprise hit, with more than 3,000 subscribers signing up since it was launched in the summer.

While the first edition was a relatively simple affair, the latest extends to 14 (XIV) pages.

The simple crossword includes clues about Hercules’ weapon of choice (I down: “clava”, or club) and the acronym “SPQR” (III down: Senatus PopulusQue Romani, or the Senate and People of Rome).

It even includes a comic strip featuring Incredibilis Snupius - or Snoopy to non-Latin speakers.

“So far we have focussed just on Italy but we’re now hoping to attract interest around the world,” Luca Desiata, the editor, told The Telegraph. “We’ve had a couple of hundred subscriptions from France and about 100 from the UK.”

The inspiration for the magazine came from Mr Desiata’s school days in the 1980s, when he used to make up puzzles and word games to learn Latin.

“I was very passionate about Latin and I thought I’d revive the idea. It’s a fun way of learning the language. Some of our subscribers are teachers who use the magazine as a tool to teach their students – we even have one from the Faroe Islands.

“But there are also doctors, lawyers and general Latin enthusiasts. And we’ve had interest from priests at the Vatican, where Latin is still the official language,” said Rome-based Mr Desiata, 43, whose day job is as an executive at the Italian energy company Enel.

Giving himself the Latin appellation Lucas Cupidus, he runs an organisation called My Latin Lover, which promotes the modern-day use of Latin, more than 1,500 years after the collapse of the Roman Empire.

The language of the legions is undergoing a modest revival, with Latin radio stations and contemporary best-sellers such as Harry Potter translated into Latin.

The puzzle and crossword magazine is available for download, free of charge, at Mr Cupidus' website. [http://www.mylatinlover.it/]

It also features a round-up of world news, with the latest issue reporting on the World Health Organisation’s (“Societas Mundana Salutis”) operations against Ebola in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone (“Montis Leonini”) and last month’s synod, or meeting of Catholic archbishops and cardinals, at the Vatican.

Crossword Answers Across: I Cassi , IV Lupus, VII Atque, VIII Versu, IX Am Down: I Clava II Autem III SPQR IV Suus V Iseum

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141112eabc00233


News
Childs's music TV gaffe
172 words
12 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; Scotland
16
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Ebola? I could be a fan

Amy Childs has carved out a career from her less–thansharp Essex girl persona.

Now the "reality TV" performer has taken this to a new level after apparently mistaking Ebola for a pop band rather than the virus that has claimed more than 40,000 lives in Africa.

Childs, who appears on The Only Way is Essex, made her blunder as she was being interviewed by the BBC presenter Jolyon Rubinstein, on the Mobo awards red carpet in London recently. Rubinstein asked Childs: "Have we done enough to prevent the spread of Ebola?" After a flustered Miss Childs replied "What?", the video cut to the presenter saying: "You know Ebola is going to be huge, don't you?"

Then Childs appeared to warm to the subject, responding: "I might be a big fan after tonight 216; I think it will be absolutely amazing."

Childs became something of a household name during her brief tenure on The Only Way Is Essex.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141112eabc000a0


News
It's not my job to save Labour, says Blair
Georgia Graham
385 words
12 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
4
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
TONY BLAIR has said that it is no longer his job to save the Labour Party and that Ed Miliband is "robust enough" to take the criticism that has been dogging his leadership over the past few weeks.

The former Labour prime minister said that dealing with bad headlines is "what leadership is about", explaining that he had not discussed Mr Miliband's recent woes when the pair met last week.

Mr Miliband, the Labour leader, is attempting to shore up his leadership with a speech tomorrow setting out his reasons for entering politics.

Separately, business leaders yesterday piled into Mr Miliband's election chances, describing the Labour leader as "unelectable" and predicting "a significant Conservative majority" in May.

Yesterday, Mr Blair eventually backed Mr Miliband after initially refusing to answer questions on the topic.

Asked if he had spoken to Mr Miliband about his leadership, Mr Blair said that it was "not a topic" for him to answer questions on. The former prime minister, who was in Sierra Leone visiting Ebola clinics run by his charity, said that he doubted that the Labour Party would welcome any comments from him on the issue.

Asked by Kay Burley, the Sky News anchor, if he thought Mr Miliband was the right man for the job, he said: "Please Kay, honestly. I have been asked these things thousands of times and I have always said he has my full support and that is the end of it." He added that riding back into town to save the Labour Party is "not my job nowadays".

Last week, Mr Miliband was forced to deny that he is facing a "crisis of confidence" in his leadership amid accusations from businesses that he has a "downer" on aspiration.

Senior party figures have warned that a lack of confidence in Mr Miliband's leadership is adding to voters' concerns that he is not fit to be prime minister.

In recent weeks, Mr Blair has told friends that the Conservatives will win the next general election because of Mr Miliband's failure to connect with voters. Mr Blair has apparently predicted that Mr Cameron will remain in power because Labour has not persuaded Britain that it is ready to govern.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141112eabc0006m


News
Ebola doctor cured
142 words
12 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
20
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Mayor hug

Dr Craig Spencer, a New York doctor who contracted the virus while treating infected people in West Africa, hugs the city's mayor, Bill de Blasio, after his release from hospital.

Dr Spencer, who was the only remaining patient known to have the disease in the US, held a press conference to announce that he been declared free of the virus and discharged from Bellevue Hospital, one of a handful of US medical facilities designated to handle Ebola cases. The 33–year–old was admitted to the hospital three weeks ago after returning to the United States from Guinea, one of the West African countries hardest hit by the disease.

The case stirred fears because he traversed New York in the days following his return, using the subway, dining in a popular restaurant and going bowling.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141112eabc0005s


NEWS
Amy Childs mistakes deadly ebola virus for an up-and-coming band
By Keith Perry
315 words
11 November 2014
07:22 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The former The Only Way is Essex star looked perplexed when asked about the ebola virus

Amy Childs has carved out a successful career from her less-than-sharp Essex girl persona.

But now the reality TV star has taken dizziness to a whole new level after mistaking Ebola for a pop band rather than the highly publicised deadly virus, which has claimed more than 40,000 lives in Africa.

The The Only Way is Essex star made her embarrassing blunder as she was being interview by BBC presenter Jolyon Rubinstein, on the MOBO’s red carpet in London last month.

Mr Rubinstein asked Miss Childs: “Have we done enough to prevent the spread of Ebola?” To which a flummoxed Miss Childs responded: “What?”

The video then cuts to the presenter saying: “You know Ebola is going to be huge, don’t you?”

Then Miss Childs appeared to warm to the subject, responding enthusiastically: “I might be a big fan after tonight… I think it will be absolutely amazing.”

The reality star became something of a household name during her brief tenure on The Only Way Is Essex.

Her lack of current affairs knowledge may be explained by her one-woman mission to find a man.

"I’m now ready to meet someone. I work seven days a week, I live on my own, I’ve got a dog, I’m ready to be with someone but I’m not going to rush into anything. I’m dating, but I’m not getting married or anything. It’s all good," she told the Mail Online. Singer Ella Eyre also fell victim to the 33-year-old The Revolution Will Be Televised presenter’s tricky questions when he asked her if she had a message for demonstrators in Hong Kong.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141111eabb0053h


FINANCE
Sir Martin Sorrell: QE got us away from jumping over the cliff and into the Abyss
By Elizabeth Anderson and Raziye Akkoc
1688 words
11 November 2014
12:43 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Coverage from the Telegraph's Festival of Business, which celebrates ambitious medium-sized and smaller companies

17.20 Sir Charlie Mayfield reveals his favourite John Lewis Christmas advert

16.50 Winner

Bactest is announced as the winner of the Telegraph Festival of Business award.

1640 Telegraph Festival of Business award

14.10 'You can grow your way out of these things not cut your way out'

14.09 Conservatives will win, say Sir Martin and Roger Bootle

14.00 'UK and US embraced quantative easing and they're the best performers'

13.53 Sir Martin says unfair payment terms worries him

13.50 Audience reveals their confidence in the UK economy

13.45 Eurozone drama and the unknowns affect the UK economy

13.40 Sir Martin Sorrell and Roger Bootle take to the stage

12.30 Importance of your product

12.15 SEO and the importance of customer feedback

11.55 How to find customers

09.15

08.00 Agenda for the day

Good Morning

• David Cameron will win the next election, say speakers

• John Lewis chairman Sir Charlie Mayfield says we are through the 'naive' stage of the recession

• UK needs a 'proper housing policy, says L&G boss Nigel Wilson

17.20 Thank you for following the live blog and have a good evening.

</br>As this live blog comes to an end, here is a video of Sir Charlie Mayfield talking about his John Lewis favourite adverts.

</br>The business turns bacterial activity into data. It has two products - Speedy Breedy, and Shepherd. Both are making strides in what is happening in contamination.

Collecting the award, CEO Annie Brooking asked Myleene if she'd like a job.

</br>Myleene Klass, one of the judges, is discussing how she transformed from popstar to businesswoman.

People talk about being a brand now what does that mean? I have to watch how I'm perceived. It’s looking after what your brand is about. Companies like Mothercare and Littlewoods, who I work with, like to know they are in safe hands with you. You have to be very careful with your celebrity image.

Ms Klass adds she's had to be pretty fearless.

"I approached Mothercare 10 years ago. People said I was crazy – there are millions of babywear lines out there already. But I had lots of experience. My grandfather worked in textiles and the marketing experience came from being in a pop band. Eight years down the line and 15 collections – it’s clearly been a success.”

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en-gb">It's @KlassMyleene[https://twitter.com/KlassMyleene] on stage at #FOB2014[https://twitter.com/hashtag/FOB2014?src=hash] . Lots of people whispering, "Is it her? It is her!" pic.twitter.com/D43pqaTdZc[http://t.co/D43pqaTdZc]

— Bex Burn-Callander (@sparky000) November 11, 2014[https://twitter.com/sparky000/status/532210900829499394]

But Roger Bootle said: I'm an economist and surely you expect a straight answer. I agree with the PM's approach. I think it will be rather odd - and this is where I disagree with Ukip, to throw it all away. [But]I don't think you'll get very much on free movement - I think he'll get next to nothing.

</br>What the government has done has been broadly speaking the right thing. But I wouldn't focus on the debt level and deficit. We've had higher debt ratios, what's important is the trend. We have broadly speaking got on top of the deficit. As long as we keep the economy growing. You can grow your way out of these things not cut your way out.

</br>Both men agree they believe Conservatives could win and Mr Bootle says he believes they could win an overall majority.

Ed Miliband is unelectable. David Cameron may not be everyone's cup of tea but he is prime ministerial. It looks like SNP will sweep the board."

Sir Martin added: "It looks like SNP will hold the balance of power [after the general election].

</br>The two countries that did embrace QE, US and UK, are the best performers. The Eurozone, which hasn't, is not. There are the dangers of creating bubbles which is a serious issue," Mr Bootle says.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en">The only bubble I can see is in London residential housing, says economist Roger Bootle#FOB2014[https://twitter.com/hashtag/FOB2014?src=hash]

— Rebecca FitzGerald (@rjafitzgerald) November 11, 2014[https://twitter.com/rjafitzgerald/status/532170867879723008]

"For France and Italy, there has to structural change."

</br>The WPP CEO says the rise of finance procurement worries him and explains the "two things we face": payment terms and intellectual property.

</br>A short interval during which Allister Heath asked the audience to say whether they were more or less confident about the UK economy in the next year and found 59pc were more confident while 35pc felt the same.

Meanwhile, three quarters of our delegates (73pc) said they were confident about the future of their company.

</br>Sir Martin and Mr Bootle continue their discussion and the latter said things could be better "if they could sort the Eurozone", though Sir Martin interjected: "Or if we could."

But Sir Martin reminds us the Middle East is still fraught, though "Egypt is getting into better shape" [but] a whole host of issues reinforce the layman complex.

"There are unknowns: Isis, Ebola, the Hong Kong demonstrations."

</br>WPP CEO Sir Martin is on stage with the Telegraph's Roger Bootle after an introduction by Allister Heath.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en"> #FOB2014[https://twitter.com/hashtag/FOB2014?src=hash]pic.twitter.com/IQPN7JWlxJ[http://t.co/IQPN7JWlxJ]

— Raziye Akkoc (@RazAkkoc) November 11, 2014[https://twitter.com/RazAkkoc/status/532164148697006081]

</br>Ms Shand tells the audience not to forget how important your product is.

"It has to be a cracking product."

And that brings to an end the breakout sessions. Time for lunch.

</br>Wendy Shand, founder and director of Tots to Travel (a specialist travel firm), tells the audience at the 'How to find a customer' session that SEO is important and how "customer feedback lets you know how well you are doing and how your product is doing".

"We also use a device, Qualaroo, which gives us tiny day-to-day snapshots on the website. They also do it on Facebook.

"Facebook has gone bananas [but] it's so important. It's only going to get bigger.

"If you ask for it [feedback], people will talk to you. They want to help. If you're not BT..."

</br>Lots of discussion in the Rachel Bridge-moderated session about finding customers and marketing.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-partner="tweetdeck">. @totstotravelmum[https://twitter.com/Totstotravelmum] splits biz into 'traffic', 'conversion' and 'product' - 'a marketing business that happens to sell holidays' #FOB2014[https://twitter.com/hashtag/FOB2014?src=hash]

— Tom Cheesewright (@bookofthefuture) November 11, 2014[https://twitter.com/bookofthefuture/status/532139135684050944]

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en">I am in the how to find customers sessions moderated by Rachel Bridge. #FOB2014[https://twitter.com/hashtag/FOB2014?src=hash]pic.twitter.com/YTfA7MTOeJ[http://t.co/YTfA7MTOeJ]

— Raziye Akkoc (@RazAkkoc) November 11, 2014[https://twitter.com/RazAkkoc/status/532137763769176064]

Telegraph Enterprise Editor Rebecca Burn-Callander is moderating the 'Exporting to the World' session.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en">After coffee, it's the export panel #FOB2014[https://twitter.com/hashtag/FOB2014?src=hash] moderated by @sparky000[https://twitter.com/sparky000]pic.twitter.com/AstgZ2pLds[http://t.co/AstgZ2pLds]

— Business is GREAT (@businessisgreat) November 11, 2014[https://twitter.com/businessisgreat/status/532133823002456064]

Earlier we mentioned the panel discussion during which the speakers agreed further youth employment will come from colleges and schools.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en">Good session #FOB2014[https://twitter.com/hashtag/FOB2014?src=hash]pic.twitter.com/5t446KkB6Y[http://t.co/5t446KkB6Y]

— Sophie Eastwood (@SophieEastwood) November 11, 2014[https://twitter.com/SophieEastwood/status/532126067960872960]

He adds that apprenticeships are essential for young people's entry into the workplace. "There has been a dramatic increase in demand for higher skilled, technology-enabled roles," he says.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en">In 2012/13, 272k people began uni degree. Only 3k began higher-level apprenticeships #FOB2014[https://twitter.com/hashtag/FOB2014?src=hash]@johnlewisretail[https://twitter.com/johnlewisretail]

— Stuart Rock (@stuart_rock) November 11, 2014[https://twitter.com/stuart_rock/status/532116646807498753]

</br>Nigel Wilson, chief executive of Legal & General Group, delivers the first keynote speech.

He says team, trust and transparency are needed to create economic growth and a fair society.

He believes in capping pension tax relief and reducing the impact of "punitive national insurance" to help SMEs.

He also supports fracking and building on the green belt.

All of this will help build a better Britain for everyone," he says.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en"> #FOB2014[https://twitter.com/hashtag/FOB2014?src=hash]Nigel Wilson: "More jobs, but on low pay, leading to fewer tax payers and lower tax receipts. GDP growth alone won't fix this"

— Gerald Dawson (@SporadicInsight) November 11, 2014[https://twitter.com/SporadicInsight/status/532100715515498496]

</br>Here is the rundown of the main events today at the Festival of Business.

09.00 Welcome and opening address – Allister Heath, Deputy Editor and Head of Business

09.15Nigel Wilson, chief executive of Legal & General Group, on the changing face of the UK

10.05 Panel discussion on the role of skills, education and ownership in driving business success. With Sir Charlie Mayfield of John Lewis, Will Butler-Adams of Brompton Bicycle, Julie Kenny, Chair and Chief Executive at Pyronix, and James Quinn, the Telegraph's Executive Business Editor.

11.30 Breakout sessions

Sessions on: Exporting to the world, Financing growth, How to find new customers, Google clinic.

12.30 Lunch

13.30 Sorrell Vs Bootle. Sir Martin Sorrell, chief executive, WPP Group, and Roger Bootle, managing director, Capital Economics discuss the UK economy.

14.20 Breakout sessions

15.40 ‘Why technology is at the heart of every great business’ - panel discussion featuring Tim Steiner, CEO of Ocado, Phil Jones, MD of Brother UK, Kathryn Parsons, co-founder of Decoded, and Chris Poad, director of seller services, Amazon UK.

16.30 Telegraph Festival of Business Award presented by Allister Heath.

</br>07.40 Good morning and welcome to our live coverage of the Telegraph's Festival of Business[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/festival-of-business/], our annual event for ambitious medium-sized and smaller companies.

Our speakers are among the most influential people in British business today: John Lewis chairman Sir Charlie Mayfield, WPP's Sir Martin Sorrell, Capital Economics founder Roger Bootle, Ocado chief executive Tim Steiner, Nails Inc founder Thea Green and Will Butler‐Adams of Brompton Bicycle.

Have your say as it happens by following the #FOB2014 hashtag on Twitter

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141111eabb004ei


CULTURE
'Ebola is man-made', and other crazy conspiracy theories
By Will Storr
2282 words
11 November 2014
05:09 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Is Obama behind the Ebola outbreak? Are planes poisoning us? Is Lady Gaga part of an evil Illuminati plot? The five conspiracy theories you won't believe people believe

The best conspiracy theories[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/books/10912728/Are-we-really-being-ruled-by-flesh-eating-lizards.html] are like enchanting mazes of logic whose thresholds, once crossed, are hard to return from. As ludicrous as they can appear from a distance, the closer you get, the stronger their gravity and the greater the danger of being sucked in. How else to describe the extraordinary rebirth of David Icke[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/religion/8933565/David-Icke-would-you-believe-it.html] ? Best known to some as the former BBC sports presenter who appeared on Wogan in a turquoise tracksuit implying he might be the son of God, to the post-Twin Towers generation he’s the visionary master of conspiracy, performing his unscripted 10-hour lecture about the secret forces that rule the world to sell-out crowds at Wembley Arena.

A 2011 BBC poll found that 14 per cent of Britons believed 9/11 was an inside job. Just as conspiracy websites are flourishing, so are those dedicated to undermining them, such as Snopes[http://www.snopes.com/info/top25uls.asp], The Skeptic’s Dictionar[http://www.skepdic.com/] y and Skeptoid[http://skeptoid.com/] . The number one debunking podcast on iTunes, The Skeptic’s Guide to the Universe, claims a weekly listenership of 120,000 and tens of millions of downloads since its 2005 launch.

Icke often describes his work as “dot connecting”. But connecting dots is precisely how all sorts of mistakes about reality arise. “Our brains evolved to spot patterns in the environment and weave them into coherent stories,” says psychologist and conspiracy theory expert Dr Rob Brotherton. “We’re all conspiracy theorists because of the way our minds work. It’s how we make sense of the world. But it’s easy to connect dots that shouldn’t be connected.”

So humans are rampant dodgy dot connectors, and they also suffer from an array of biases that make them susceptible to faulty belief. “We’re biased towards seeing intentions in the world, to think things were done deliberately instead of being chaotic,” says Dr Brotherton.

“There’s also a proportionality bias, so we want to think that when something big happens in the world it has a big explanation. In the case of JFK, you don’t want to believe some guy you’ve never heard of killed the most important man in the world and changed the course of history. Another is confirmation bias – when we get an idea in our head it’s very easy to find evidence that seems to support it. It takes a very unusual mind to de-convince itself. We’re made to believe.”

And some of the theories out there at the moment really take some believing. Here are five:

1. The Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] virus is an escaped bioweapon

Some believe the Ebola outbreak started with sinister armed men poisoning wells, a successful attempt at mass murder that led to arrests in Liberia. Louis Farrakhan, leader of the Nation of Islam, reckons the virus has been designed to affect only black people. “If you are black or brown, you are being selected for destruction.”

Others believe it’s an escaped military bioweapon. This theory’s chief proponent is Prof Francis Boyle, a noted scholar of biowarfare and international law at the University of Illinois. In the US Prof Boyle literally wrote the rules of biowarfare. He was a member of the government’s Committee of Military Use of Biotechnology and principal author of the Biological Weapons Anti Terrorism Act of 1989 which was signed into law by George Bush Snr. “This isn’t normal Ebola at all,” he says. “I believe it’s been genetically modified.”

Boyle points to the existence of US government laboratories in Africa that are creating bioweapons under the guise of innocently working on cures. “What they tell you is, ‘We can imagine some exotic disease out there that could be used as a biological weapon, so therefore we have to look into it. The first step is to weaponise the disease so we can develop a vaccine for it.’  ” What diseases are they working on? “Every type of biowarfare agent you can possibly imagine, including dengue fever and Ebola.”

One of these laboratories, says Boyle, is in Kenema, Sierra Leone. “Kenema is the absolute epicentre of the outbreak. Something happened there. It could have been an accident in the lab or they might have been testing an experimental vaccine [on the population] using live genetically modified Ebola and calling it something else.” The proof, for Boyle, that this is a modified form of Ebola is in both the speed of its spread and the number it is killing. “In the other outbreaks it’s a 50 per cent fatality rate and it was contained. Right here, we’re dealing with a 70 per cent and it’s not contained. All the evidence I’ve been able to locate leads me to believe it came out of the Kenema lab.” How high does the cover-up go? “I think the people at the top know. Probably Obama too.”

Critics of the theory observe that if this was an altered version of the disease, the changes to its structure would be observable to scientists. However, DNA analysis of samples sourced from 78 individuals affected by the current outbreak was recently published in the journal Science. It found this subtly different variant likely diverged from central African lineages around 10 years ago before spreading into west Africa in May. It is, in other words, perfectly natural.

2. Aeroplanes are killing us

We are being sprayed by sinister aeroplanes. We are being poisoned, en masse, from the heavens. You can tell by looking up. Why is it that some condensation trails, or contrails, left by commercial craft dissipate after a short amount of time, whereas others remain for hours and expand? And why is it that these suspected chemical trails, or “chemtrails”, tend to be laid out in rows of the same direction, as if they’re part of a meticulously planned pattern?

The Chemtrails Project UK is one of hundreds of websites devoted to the popular chemtrails theory. It confidently asserts the streaks are “highly toxic trails left by jet planes” that “contain high levels of heavy metals”. Their purpose? It’s a geo-engineering project, perhaps an attempt to control global warming. Others say they’re brain-numbing chemical agents used to control the population.

Of course, there are sceptics. In October, 41-year-old Chris Bovey rather uncharitably pranked the believers with a video upload (above) of a plane dumping excess fuel. Despite his admission that it was nothing sinister it’s been viewed more than 90,000 times. In the US, the Federal Aviation Administration has politely pointed out that in conditions of high humidity, ice particles form in the condensation trails that aeroplanes make. These tiny dots of ice grow in size as they absorb moisture from the air around them. Such trails can linger for hours. And the sinister parallel rows of trails? They tend to point in the direction of an airport…

3. Israel uses spy vultures

In December 2012, in the Sudanese town of Kereinek, officials arrested a vulture for spying. The evidence? Electronic equipment attached to its leg that, they suspected, enabled it to broadcast images back to its Israeli HQ. Had the ­Mossad begun recruiting agents from the vulturine world, eager to capitalise on their ability to fly 375 miles a day in virtual silence? Or was the truth, as Israel’s Nature and Parks Authority insisted, that they were merely tracking the birds with GPS for scientific study?

It wouldn’t be the last time such suspicions were raised. In July 2013 Turkish authorities detained a mysterious kestrel that was tagged “24311 Tel Avivunia Israel”. After X-rays found no evidence of listening devices on its body, the kestrel was declared not guilty. A month later, the Egyptians arrested a stork. In 2010, a Zionist vulture was the centre of an investigation by security forces after a hunter discovered a tag reading “Tel Aviv University”. The same year, in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, a run of shark attacks was blamed on Israel. “What is being said about the Mossad throwing the deadly shark (in the sea) to hit tourism in Egypt is not out of the question, but it needs time to confirm,” a cautious but not-that-cautious-at-all-really South Sinai Governor, Mohamed Abdel Fadil Shousha, told local reporters.

4. The Middle Ages never happened

What’s not a secret is that, at some point prior to the 16th century, we all got a bit muddled up with our timings. The problem was our dates were falling out of sync with the astronomical cycles. Since around 45BC, we’d been using the simplistic Julian calendar, which gave us a leap year every four years. By the time the slightly more complex but superior Gregorian calendar was formulated, in 1582, it was reckoned we had “lost” around 10 days. That drift was corrected – we jumped from October 4 to October 15 – and we carried on anew. But if you do the maths, something strange will become apparent.

You’ll see that it would have taken 1,257 years for us to accumulate those 10 days of error. And if you subtract those 1,257 years from the year in which we changed to the new calendar, you’ll find yourself not in 45BC, when we began using the old calendar and the drifting began, but AD 325. We have, it seems, lost more than three centuries.

Researchers such as German scholars Heribert Illig and Dr Hans-Ulrich Niemitz believe it’s not 2014, right now, but 1717. Postulating a complex conspiracy between Byzantine Emperor Constantine VII and his relative Holy Roman Emperor Otto III, who they say wanted the records to falsely show that he was reigning at the symbolic fall of the first millennium, they’ve concluded that the Middle Ages never happened. After all, wouldn’t this explain why, following the fall of the Roman Empire, nobody in the west really did anything? For 300 years, there weren’t really any wars or works of literature or technological advances. Were we asleep? Stoned? Tying our shoelaces? Or were the Dark Ages dark because they didn’t actually exist?

Critics of what’s known as the “phantom time hypothesis” claim the theory’s grand error is that the correction, back in 1582, wasn’t actually for the purposes of correcting for 10 days. Rather, the intention was to put Easter back in the right place. It was the Council of Nicea that originally decided where Easter should be and its position was set in 325BC – which, boringly, means the maths add up.

5. Lady Gaga[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/music/rockandpopfeatures/11075519/Lady-Gaga-on-Tony-Bennett-Ive-been-controlled-for-years.-He-liberates-me.html] is an Illuminati puppet

The splendid irony about the shadowy group of dukes, diplomats and intellectuals known as the Illuminati is that their mission was, in part, to counter superstition. Founded in 18th-century Bavaria, they existed for less than a decade, fading into the fog following an order of abolishment for all secret societies by the Prince Elector, Charles Theodore. Or did they? Could it be that they actually went underground, as some suspected at the time, and conspired to cause the French Revolution? Worse, does the Illuminati still exist? Is it silently manipulating the minds of the young through the seductions of modern pop music?

“Mass media conducts a large-scale mind-control project, which starts at birth with Disney movies and continues with Hollywood flicks and music videos,” says concerned website The Vigilant Citizen. The site goes on to allege that pop singer Lady Gaga is an “Illuminati Puppet”. “Her vacuous, robotic and slightly degenerate persona embodies all the ‘symptoms’ of a mind-control victim.”

The evidence? You’ve only got to look at her name: “Gaga refers to absent-mindedness… this state of mind is achieved after successful mind control.” And her logo: “A headless female body with a bolt of lightning going through her and exiting her genitalia… implies that her thoughtless body has been ‘charged’ with a force that gives it life.” And what about that famous Illuminati symbol known as the All Seeing Eye? “You only need to look at a couple of Lady Gaga pictures or videos to notice that she is constantly hiding one of her eyes.” And her first appearance in her tour video? “Lady G is talking in a vaporous and robotic way, as if she was lobotomised, singing about a man who ‘swallowed her brain’… If this is not about mind control, I have no idea what it’s about.”

It’s not only Gaga. Didn’t Rihanna[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/culturepicturegalleries/11115464/Rihanna-in-pictures.html] once wear a T-shirt that said “Daughter of the Illuminati?” Didn’t Beyoncé[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/music/10680906/Beyonces-Partition-shed-be-sexier-dancing-in-her-pyjamas.html] once wear a pair of shoes that were each decorated with a single eyeball? And what of her and Jay Z’s child, Blue Ivy? An odd name. Until you realise it’s an acronym for “Born Living Under Evil, Illuminati’s Very Youngest”.

But what’s the actual mission of these powerful pop puppets? What are the practicalities of the evil plot they’re engaged in? Alas, such details aren’t entirely clear, and the mysterious “Vigilant Citizen” failed to respond to the Telegraph’s emails. Hardly surprising, what with us being mind-warped shills spreading misinformation to the sheeple masses on behalf of our shadowy Illuminati bosses, who are secretly ruling the world from their lizard kingdom inside the hollow moon.

The Heretics, by Will Storr, is published by Picador, priced £8.99

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141108eab8001xh


NEWS
Hermit kingdom North Korea takes extreme Ebola precautions
By Julian Ryall Tokyo
372 words
11 November 2014
03:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
North has demanded workers from South go through thermal scanners before entering joint Kaesong industrial park

North Korea has demanded that thermal scanners be set up at the entrance to the Kaesong Industrial Complex to detect signs of Ebola among the 400 South Koreans who commute to the facility daily.

The latest draconian measure comes on top of the 21-day quarantine period that is being enforced upon anyone entering the reclusive state.

South Korea's Unification Ministry has agreed to Pyongyang's demand, according to the Yonhap news agency, and will provide three thermal scanners to the North Korean immigration office at the entrance to Kaesong.

No cases of Ebola have been reported in South Korea - or anywhere else in Asia - since the most recent major outbreak in West Africa earlier this year. An estimated 14,000 people have been taken ill, with around 5,000 deaths. The vast majority of the cases have occurred in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, with a handful of infections in Nigeria, four in the United States and one each in Spain, Senegal and Mali.

The North Korean government is taking no chances of the disease penetrating its borders, however, and has introduced the stiffest prevention measures in the world.

Pyongyang reacted similarly in 2009, when avian flu was confirmed in parts of Asia, and closed its border for several months.

The 21-day quarantine requirement on anyone entering the the country is playing havoc with travel companies specialising in tours of North Korea, including British-owned Koryo Tours.

"We are sorry to say that tourists are currently unable to travel to the DPRK due to concerns held there over the potential threat posed by the international spread of the Ebola virus," the company said in a statement. "This is a temporary measure that applies to all tourists while the necessary protocols are put in place.

"We are in constant dialogue with our partners in Pyongyang and are doing everything we can to have this travel restriction on our tourists lifted at the earliest opportunity."

Diplomats have also reportedly expressed concern over the quarantine period, which is also affecting humanitarian aid programmes.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141111eabb001me


News
No free downloads, give us your money, demands Geldof as Band Aid return
Anita Singh
596 words
11 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
11
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
WHEN Do They Know It's Christmas? was first released in 1984, everyone from Fortnum & Mason to a Plymouth butcher's shop cleared their shelves to sell copies.

High Street stores were besieged by shoppers buying dozens at a time as festive gifts. The single raised £8 million to help victims of the Ethiopian famine.

Three decades on, Bob Geldof and Midge Ure are resurrecting the song to raise funds for the fight against Ebola in West Africa.

Although they have assembled another stellar line-up of pop talent, including the boyband One Direction and Chris Martin of Coldplay, their efforts may be undone by the internet.

In an era when music is delivered free online, Geldof fears that fans will watch the video on YouTube for nothing and fail to pay a penny to charity.

"What I really want to stress is that this free music thing does not work for us at all," Geldof said at the launch of the record. "Like I said 30 years ago, it really doesn't matter if you don't like this song.

It really doesn't matter if you hate the artists. It really doesn't matter if it turns out to be a lousy recording. What you have to do is buy this thing.

"Don't download it [free]. Don't just look at YouTube. Pay for everything."

Ure said the release of the single was about "being part of something".

"There was something in the air 30 years ago that you could touch, that you could feel," he said. "People wanted to help. We want that again."

The new single will be recorded on Saturday, almost 30 years to the day since the original was made in the same west London studio.

The 1984 line-up included U2, George Michael, Boy George, Sting, Status Quo, Kool and the Gang, Duran Duran, Spandau Ballet and Bananarama.

Of those big names, only Bono of U2 will appear on the new version. He will be joined by a clutch of performers who were not born when the original was recorded, including Ed Sheeran, Jessie Ware, Olly Murs and Ellie Goulding.

David Bowie has been approached to record an introduction to the video, just as he did in 1984, although he has yet to reply. The lyrics have been "tweaked" to remove references to famine and Ethiopia's landscape.

The line "underneath the burning sun" will be replaced because, as Geldof explained, "West Africa is actually quite lush". The line "where nothing ever grows/No rain or rivers flow" will also be reworked.

However, the "Feed The World" refrain will be retained.

The single will be available to download for 99p from Monday. But it will take another three weeks for the single to be manufactured and delivered to shops.

The former Boomtown Rats singer said he was inspired to raise money for the fight against Ebola by a call from the United Nations and reading about the bravery of nurses and doctors who had flown out to treat victims.

"I don't like doing this stuff," he said. "It's quite boring organising it.

"But this is a particularly pernicious illness. Mothers can't comfort their children in their dying hours. And it could come our way."

Ure is masterminding the music side of the production. He said: "It's not a bad line-up so far. As long as Bob and I stay off the vocals, we'll be fine."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141111eabb00046


NEWS
New York doctor infected with Ebola to be released from hospital
By Agencies
428 words
10 November 2014
06:18 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The city Department of Health says in a statement Dr. Craig Spencer 'has been declared free of the virus'

A New York doctor who was diagnosed with Ebola after working with patients in West Africa will be released on Tuesday from a hospital where he has been treated for the disease, according to reports.

Dr. Craig Spencer, 33, had been held in isolation in Bellevue Hospital since he was diagnosed with Ebola on Oct. 23, after working with patients in Guinea with Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF).

Officials at Bellevue declined to confirm or deny the New York Times report and New York City Health Department officials did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

Spencer's diagnosis followed trips on the subway to eat out and go bowling with friends, provoking alarm about the possible spread of the virus in New York City.

Ebola has killed almost 5,000 people out of more than 13,000 infected since it broke out in West Africa earlier this year, according to the World Health Organisation. The bulk of the cases and deaths have come in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea.

Spencer is one of a handful of U.S. health workers exposed to Ebola while working in West Africa, the site of the worst outbreak of the disease on record.

In North Carolina, health officials said on Monday a missionary doctor deemed to be at "some risk" for developing the disease after returning from Liberia had been placed under a 21-day quarantine.

It was the second quarantine for Dr. John Fankhauser, 52, a family physician from Ventura, California, who officials said has shown no signs of the virus since arriving in Charlotte, Christian mission group SIM USA said.

In far northern Maine, a nurse who treated Ebola patients in West Africa and publicly fought quarantine orders in New Jersey and Maine after returning to the United States last month planned to move from her home after her quarantine expired on Monday, according to local media.

The nurse, Kaci Hickox, and her boyfriend, Ted Wilbur, told local media they had faced some harrassment since her arrival in Fort Kent and wanted to move someplace they could live quietly.

Hickox had feuded with New Jersey Governor Chris Christie and Maine Governor Paul LePage, saying the limits they sought to impose on her movements were not grounded in science.

Medical experts say Ebola can be transmitted only through the bodily fluid of a person who is exhibiting symptoms.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141110eaba00669


NEWS
BBC allows Rita Ora to take part in Band Aid single
By Telegraph reporter
240 words
10 November 2014
05:50 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Sir Bob Geldof feared that Ora, a coach on The Voice, would not be allowed time off from the prime-time talent show

Pop singer Rita Ora has been allowed to take part in the recording of the Band Aid Christmas single after BBC bosses allowed her to take time off from recording The Voice.

Sir Bob Geldof, announcing that Do They Know It's Christmas will be recorded once again to raise money to tackle the Ebola crisis, said he feared that the singer would not be allowed the time off to record the song by producers.

The ‘How We Do (Party)’ singer is acting a coach on the prime-time BBC talent show.

Sir Bob said that Ora was on board but had to pull out because she was contracted to The Voice.

He added that he had asked The Voice producers to free the singer, who is a coach on the BBC show, for "a couple of hours" but added: "So far it hasn't been good."

But the corporation said later that it was happy for the singer to take part in the recording of the single.

A spokeswoman said: "The BBC is more than happy for Rita to take part in the single and The Voice production team is liaising with her management to work around a major diary clash.

"

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141110eaba005y2


NEWS
Band Aid 30: One Direction among celebrity line-up
By Anita Singh Arts and Entertainment Editor
622 words
10 November 2014
04:45 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Bob Geldof announces stars One Direction, Chris Martin and Paloma Faith among those to collaborate for fourth recording of Do They Know It's Christmas?

When Do They Know It’s Christmas? was first released in 1984, everyone from Fortnum & Mason to a Plymouth butcher’s shop cleared their shelves to sell copies.

High Street stores were besieged by shoppers buying dozens at a time as festive gifts. The single raised £8 million to help victims of the Ethiopian famine.

Three decades on, Bob Geldof and Midge Ure are resurrecting the song to raise funds for the fight against Ebola in West Africa.

Although they have assembled another stellar line-up of pop talent, including the boyband One Direction and Chris Martin of Coldplay, their efforts may be undone by the internet.

In an era when music is delivered free online, Geldof fears that fans will watch the video on YouTube for nothing and fail to pay a penny to charity.

“What I really want to stress is that this free music thing does not work for us at all,” Geldof said at the launch of the record. “Like I said 30 years ago, it really doesn’t matter if you don’t like this song. It really doesn’t matter if you hate the artists. It really doesn’t matter if it turns out to be a lousy recording. What you have to do is buy this thing.

“Don’t download it [free]. Don’t just look at YouTube. Pay for everything.”

Ure said the release of the single was about “being part of something”.

“There was something in the air 30 years ago that you could touch, that you could feel,” he said. “People wanted to help. We want that again.”

The new single will be recorded on Saturday, almost 30 years to the day since the original was made in the same west London studio.

The 1984 line-up included U2, George Michael, Boy George, Sting, Status Quo, Kool and the Gang, Duran Duran, Spandau Ballet and Bananarama.

Of those big names, only Bono of U2 will appear on the new version. He will be joined by a clutch of performers who were not born when the original was recorded, including Ed Sheeran, Jessie Ware, Olly Murs and Ellie Goulding.

David Bowie has been approached to record an introduction to the video, just as he did in 1984, although he has yet to reply. The lyrics have been “tweaked” to remove references to famine and Ethiopia’s landscape.

The line “underneath the burning sun” will be replaced because, as Geldof explained, “West Africa is actually quite lush”. The line “where nothing ever grows/No rain or rivers flow” will also be reworked.

However, the “Feed The World” refrain will be retained.

The single will be available to download for 99p from Monday. But it will take another three weeks for the single to be manufactured and delivered to shops.

The former Boomtown Rats singer said he was inspired to raise money for the fight against Ebola by a call from the United Nations and reading about the bravery of nurses and doctors who had flown out to treat victims.

“I don’t like doing this stuff,” he said. “It’s quite boring organising it.

“But this is a particularly pernicious illness. Mothers can’t comfort their children in their dying hours. And it could come our way.”

Ure is masterminding the music side of the production. He said: “It’s not a bad line-up so far. As long as Bob and I stay off the vocals, we’ll be fine.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141110eaba003bp


CULTURE
Band Aid 30: One Direction and Ed Sheeran to feature on Christmas single for Ebola relief
283 words
10 November 2014
09:59 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Bob Geldof and Midge Ure have announced that some of today's biggest chart stars will help raise money to fight the spread of Ebola in West Africa, by recording a new version of Do They Know It's Christmas?

Thirty years after their original Band Aid single raised millions of pounds for charity, Sir Bob Geldof[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11166023/Sir-Bob-Geldof-Ebola-shows-West-not-interested-in-Africa.html] and Midge Ure are giving the song a festive makeover for 2014.

Band Aid 30, featuring some of the biggest names in the charts today, will be the fourth recording of the now classic Do They Know It's Christmas.

The original 1984 release raised £8 million for famine-ravaged Ethiopia, and proceeds from the sale of the 2014 version will go to help combat the spread of the deadly Ebola virus[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/10997859/Ebola-outbreak-explained-in-60-seconds.html] in West Africa.

The lyrics have been changed slightly so that the song reflects the fight against disease[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11166572/British-Ebola-survivor-returning-to-West-Africa-to-help-fight-virus.html] rather than hunger.

The Government will be under pressure to waive VAT on the charity single, as has been done in previous years.

"It really doesn't matter if you don't like this song, it really doesn't matter if you hate all the artists. What you have to do is buy this thing," said Bob Geldof.

Chris Martin, Ed Sheeran, Paloma Faith, One Direction[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/culturevideo/musicvideo/11184437/Watch-Behind-the-scenes-pictures-of-One-Direction-video-Steal-My-Girl.html], Sam Smith and Jessie Ware are just some of the acts involved in the recording.

Bono is the only artist from the original 1984 recording to feature on the new one.

The artists will gather in London to record the single on Saturday, and it will be available to download from November 17.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141110eaba003s5


Population growth is clearly our planet's number-one problem
By Alex Proud
1909 words
10 November 2014
03:01 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
You don't need to be a 'greenius' to know that our numbers are growing too fast for planet Earth - so why don't we do anything about it, asks Alex Proud

There are so many elephants in the room these days that I often find myself wondering if those ancient Hindu cosmologists might have been on to something. Perhaps the world really is just one giant room, supported on the back of four elephants. I’m not sure what this means for the giant turtle on whose back the elephants are meant to be standing. Perhaps turtles are the new elephants.

Anyway, in the modern British discourse, our unaddressed elephants make for depressing reading. The NHS going broke in a decade. Plump-pensioned, equity-rich septuagenarians sunning themselves in the Maldives while the young can barely afford the rent on someone else’s buy to let dump. The last Londoner moving out of Zone One. Corporations with more power than sovereign states. The worst PM in living memory. An opposition leader who makes him look good.

But while these are big problems, they’re not the biggest problem. The bull elephant of problems was bought home to me a month ago when the WWF released its Living Planet Report[http://wwf.panda.org/about_our_earth/all_publications/living_planet_report/]which said that half the wild animals in the world (no doubt some of them elephants) had disappeared in the last 40 years. There’s only one reason for this. And that is us. The world’s hyper-successful, amped-up, technologically-leveraged apex predator. More of us means less of them. Sorry turtles. Sorry pandas. Sorry elephants. The world is finite and there’s only so much space.

For the few last decades it’s been fashionable to say that the limits of the world aren’t really a problem. I can see some of this thinking. I’m no Malthusian and I believe that science can sustain population growth for quite some time. GM crops have the potential to significantly increase yields while massively reducing fertiliser and pesticides use, thus improving everything from our coastal seas to our honeybees. I emphatically believe that GM is the the key to a second green revolution and will greatly improve the world, rather than make Jolly Green Giant a Frankenfood reality.

But even delicious hamatoes and all the other wonders that science can deliver only delay the day of reckoning so far. So assuming we’re not all about to upload to the cloud, we have to accept that there are limits to our numbers and lifestyles and that, unless things change drastically, we’re pretty close to many of these limits. Given this, I find it weird that we never really talk about the end game. Discussions about a post-growth world should be mainstream, not eccentric fringe.

By growth I’m talking about the big two measures that tend to result in fewer gorillas, coral reefs, rainforests and icebergs: population and GDP. The first of these needs to stop growing (and go into reverse) and the second needs to plateau or at least stop being everyone’s go-to indicator for everything; ideally, it might become irrelevant.

Just by writing this, I feel that I may have placed myself in tinfoil-hat territory. But I don’t think either of these inevitabilities need to be bad things and I’m not nursing Hollywoodish post-apocalyptic fantasies populated by suspiciously good looking 18-25 year olds. However, I do believe that at some point the 20th century model of pretty much everything has to cease. As a leading indicator of this, you can already see that the model that worked so brilliantly for America in the 20th century is working a lot less well for China.

Let’s take population. You don’t need to be a genius or green (or even a greenius) to realise that our numbers are growing too fast for our planet. Virtually every environmental problem would be smaller if there were fewer of us. Rainforests would stay unfelled and beautiful coastlines undeveloped. The Med and the North Sea would be full of fish. China wouldn’t be buying chunks of malnourished Africa to farm in place of the land it has polluted or covered in megacities. In the UK, there would be no debate about paving over the few remaining green spaces in the South East (or for that matter ineffectual hand-wringing about London property prices).

In fact, if there were a lot less of us, we could behave as badly as many reactionary types would like us to. We’d be able to take monster trucks on rhino-hunting safaris. We could dine off roast panda and have tiger-skin wallpaper. We’d all be able to live like America’s fossil fuel lobbyists want us to. A lot less of us – say 60-90pc, would solve most of our environmental problems in one fell swoop. However, that’s not going to happen unless the hype around Ebola really delivers.

In the meantime, we have another, related problem. Not only are there more of us, but we’re all living larger - especially in developing countries where, in the past, living large was the preserve of a tiny elite. While rising living standards may be a good thing for individuals and societies, in terms of the planet, it would be much, much better if we all lived like Bangladeshis.

Quite what a problem this is is illustrated by the section of the Living Planet Report which calculates humanity’s “ecological footprint” or the amount of planet needed to support each person. The report concludes that at today’s average global rate of consumption, humanity would need 1.5 planet Earths to provide for its needs sustainably (i.e. without trashing the future). However, if we all lived like Brits, we’d need 2.5 earths and if we all lived like Americans we’d need four. It’s another indicator (as if one was needed) that points to us living beyond our means.

When it comes to business, my dad taught me to do a few very basic checks on the financials. These are usually sums you can do in your head and, if they don’t stack up or are based on pie-in-the-sky predictions, you don’t go near whatever it is. But when it comes to humanity having a decent, comfortable, pleasant future on Earth, it strikes me that we’re prepared to accept a set of figures that would have had investors wetting their pants with laughter at the height of the dot.com boom.

The two mainstream are options are: pretend that the elephant doesn’t exist. A strategy that had some currency back in, say, 1970, when the end game was 60 years off, less so now. Or you just sit there and say that science will come up with a solution. Again, ask yourself, would you invest in a company that told you this? Worse still, the relatively low-ball population ceiling predictions that had lulled everyone into thinking we’d be OK are starting to look very conservative indeed. That reassuring nine billion figure is unlikely. What is now more likely is 11 billion plus, all of whom will, on average, be consuming more methane-generating cows than we do today.

So, again, why aren’t we talking about this? Really, we should be talking about how to solve this – to the exclusion of virtually everything else. In the medium term, nothing is more important.

The solutions do exist. Societies can and do successfully curb their growth. Japan and most of Europe are now below the replacement birth rate for their populations. Some growth in Europe comes from immigration but, in Japan, which restricts immigration, adult nappies famously now outsell infant nappies. This is usually portrayed as a bad thing, but I fail to see why. In many ways, Japan is just grasping the nettle and dealing with the problems we’ll all have to deal with soon. Perhaps we should start looking at what they’re doing right.

We might also recognise that many of our own values naturally lead to this end – and that, again this is a good thing. The biggest drivers of low birth rates are modern western values – the education of women, women in the workforce, easy availability of contraception and so on. The factors that drive population growth are largely their opposites – including all those religions which are more concerned about controlling women than the quality of life their children have.

We also need to look beyond GDP, because wealth is a kind of sufficient factor. In the US, there are innumerable studies which show that although GDP per capita has risen greatly since the 1970s, the average person is no happier. Of course, you can argue that, in America, much of this extra has gone to the top 1pc, but there are plenty of other examples that show the relationship between wealth and happiness is not linear. Indeed, the research tends to show that if you are dirt poor, a bit more money will make you happier, but if you are comfortable it makes no difference.

In the West many of us are already well beyond the GDP-satiety point, so perhaps it’s time we started devising different, more useful measures of national success. Serious, important types have tended to pooh-pooh alternative measures as hippy-dippy rubbish. But it’s worth remembering a few things here. One is that today’s politicians and economists are like generals who are always fighting the last war. Their failure to anticipate everything from the dot.com bubble to the banking crisis makes me wonder not why we still listen so closely to them, but why we listen at all.

The second is that much of the Western economy is essentially a pyramid scheme based on having ever more economically productive people. This is at its most clear with pensions – and, as we are never going replicate the post-war era, we need to think differently. Finally, there is the problem that the WWF points to and which China seems to be discovering: that, as every student’s favourite native American proverb has it, “...you can’t eat money.”

This doesn’t come easily to me. I’ve always been OK with my status as a carnivore who likes cars whose personal ecological footprint is probably 0.1 of a planet. But, I can do the maths - and all the maths and all the science is telling me that the sandal wearing, lentil-eating hippies I used to laugh at were right. We need to reduce our numbers and we need to tread more lightly on the earth. If we don’t, as lot of people have pointed out, we will eventually become part of the great mass extinction that we’ve already started.

I’m not calling for a Russell Brand style destruction of our entire economic system. But I am suggesting that there are good reasons to believe that the assumptions that have served us well in the past will not continue to do so in the future. We need to start talking about this. Not least because, if we don’t, the elephants in the room will be the only elephants left.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141110eaba001gx


News; Front Page
Army chief: Cameron opposes further cuts to troop numbers
Ben Riley–Smith
483 words
10 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; Scotland
1
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
DAVID CAMERON opposes cutting the number of British soldiers after the next election, the head of the Armed Forces said yesterday.

Gen Sir Nick Houghton promised to "fix my bayonet and fight to the last" against further redundancies.

Sir Nick admitted that financial pressures would remain when the next government took office.

But he pledged to oppose cuts to Army numbers from "inside the system". Sir Nick said government offi–cials had to appreciate the "remarkable utility" of the British Army. Soldiers had tightened security at the Olympic Games and fought the spread of Ebola in Africa.

The general also said that while international terror groups such as the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) posed an "enduring" threat to Britain, people should not "succumb" to the threats but carry on with life as normal.

The comments during a Remembrance Sunday interview on BBC One's Andrew Marr Show are likely to reignite a row over the Conservatives' spending plans after the election. Mr Cameron has come under pressure to promise that any future Tory government would continue to spend two per cent of gross domestic product (GDP) on defence.

George Osborne has warned that Britain faces billions of pounds worth of further public spending cuts. It has led to fears that the military will face further strictures.

Months after taking power the Coalition announced that regular Army numbers would be reduced by 102,000 to 82,000 soldiers. Another strategic review is proposed after the 2015 election, triggering fears of further reductions.

Tory MPs and retired commanders told The Daily Telegraph last night that Mr Cameron must promise to keep defence spending above two per cent of GDP in the Tories' manifesto. Anything else would be "dangerous and deplorable", they said.

Sir Nick suggested to Andrew Marr that Mr Cameron privately did not want soldier numbers to drop below 82,000. "I know the Prime Minister does not want again to cut the physical manpower of the Armed Forces," Sir Nick said. "But there is, of course, still further fiscal consolidation to face and we are well aware of that.

"I've always thought that [it is best] to work within the system, to allow wise counsel to bring about the best results. Ultimately, I can't dictate from inside to a government … I can't dictate what it's going to give the Armed Forces and defence as a settlement.

"That's what the people can do, that's what the media can do. All I can do is just try to counsel everybody in the remarkable utility of the Armed Forces."

Sir Nick said the Army's role in fighting floods during the winter, guarding the London Olympics and being deployed during trade union strikes highlighted the importance of soldiers outside military action.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141110eaba0009k


News
Patient in Belfast being tested for Ebola
111 words
10 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
4
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
News Bulletin

A patient is being tested for the Ebola virus in Belfast, the Public Health Agency confirmed yesterday.

The patient, who is understood to have returned recently from West Africa, has already tested positive for malaria.

The person is being kept in isolation at the Royal Victoria Hospital in Belfast.

A health spokesman said: "The Public Health Agency has confirmed that a person who has recently travelled in an area affected by Ebola is being assessed in accordance with the agreed risk assessment.

"The PHA is liaising with colleagues and has advised that there is no increased risk to the wider community."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141110eaba0005p


TECH
Facebook and Pluto.TV on the same planet with Ebola
By Monty Munford
611 words
9 November 2014
02:33 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The fight against Ebola continues and the world has mobilised. From Facebook buttons to cloud science and even TV stations with dedicated channels, there is no let-up in the battle to eradicate the disease before it takes hold, says Monty Munford

Last month Mark Zuckerberg[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/mark-zuckerberg/] and his wife Priscilla Chan donated $25 million to fight the scourge of Ebola, and Facebook has since backed up that pledge by adding a ‘Donate Now’ button on users’ timelines to link to major charities.

Facebook[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/facebook] users can consequently donate money to the Red Cross, the Red Crescent, the International Medical Corps and Save The Children; the social network will also invest millions of dollars towards internet connectivity in the affected African regions of Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone.

Notwithstanding the fact that the global surge of Ebola prevention only accelerated when it was clear that countries outside Africa might be affected, there has been a highly impressive mobilisation by global organisations to slap down Ebola.

A plethora of websites have lined up to provide information, Zuckerberg’s commitment has been backed up by Governments, companies and scientists, all working collaboratively to find an anecdote to the contagion.

Moreover, the almost supernatural efforts by Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country, to be free of Ebola after it had appeared in the 20-million plus population city of Lagos is a truly great human achievement.

The world of internet TV has also spawned another great channel to provide information about Ebola. US-based company Pluto.TV is now broadcasting a new channel, Ebola: The Facts, which provides up-to-date information from leading news sources around the world.

Available across web and mobile the channel is dedicated to educating viewers with 24/7 facts and commentary about Ebola, the crisis in Africa, a documentary on the fight in Sierra Leone and, inevitably, the effects of the few US cases that have appeared to date.

“We want to be conscious of the important issues in the world and enable our viewers to stay connected to global events 24/7 from anywhere. When something like the Ebola epidemic occurs on a global scale, it’s important that viewers be fully educated in order to grasp the reality of the situation and not cause undue panic.

“The nature of Pluto.TV, and online content in general, is that it is extremely flexible. We can be dynamic and quick to adapt to breaking news. It also means that we can quickly produce custom channels such as Ebola: The facts that are focused on trending stories,” said Tom Ryan, chief executive of Pluto.TV.

Pluto.TV is any interesting model, lauching this Spring after 12 months of development. It offers more than 90 channels of free TV-style internet video, hoping to tap into the burgeoning internet video market where YouTube alone broadcasts more than six billion hours of video every month.

Alongside traditional channels of news, music, sports and children’s content, it also shows games clips and broadcasts more niche channels for a younger audience, presided over by a team of 15 curators. The addition of Ebola: the Facts is testament to how quickly digital TV channels can be created by scouring the web for content and subsequently curating it.

While Facebook has been laughably criticised by some who consider $25 million donations and investment in African internet connectivity to be marketing tools, smaller channels, but less important ones, such as Pluto.TV show that any chance of Ebola had of going viral has a tough battle in front of it.

Well done, world…

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141109eab900107


Respect those who fight for their country – and for our freedom
By General Sir Nick Houghton, Chief of the Defence Staff
659 words
9 November 2014
02:05 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Remembrance Sunday is about honouring the brave Armed Forces personnel of the First World War and every conflict since, who demonstrated the true meaning of 'service’

The past few weeks have witnessed a remarkable public interest in the symbolism of the poppy[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/history/world-war-one/11212312/Poppy-memorial-time-lapse-at-Tower-of-London-from-dawn-to-dusk.html], centring on the Tower of London. Seeing the ceramic poppies spilling from the tower, sliding down the ancient walls and turning the moat to crimson is a striking and moving sight.

Fittingly, the last of 888,246 poppies to complete the display will be planted on Armistice Day. That final poppy recalls the life of Pte George Edwin Ellison of the 5th Royal Irish Lancers. He was one of the first to be involved in the fighting at the outbreak of war, having participated in one of the British Expeditionary Force’s earliest campaigns at Mons, in 1914. He survived being gassed and the harrowing experience of the Somme, and is believed to have been the last British soldier to fall.

It is to the soldiers of the trenches, such as Pte Ellison, that our thoughts will inevitably turn today on Remembrance Sunday. Yet we must not forget that the attritional battle in the trenches was just part of a vast war effort by men and women, Service and civilian, from across the globe. It was a war fought over a sprawling canvas, both on land and at sea, defeating the U-boat blockade and winning the battle of the Atlantic.

For the first time in history, it was also a battle fought in the air, a time when pioneering airmen earned their wings by bravely supporting ground forces and setting the standard for future generations of aircrew.

But the poppies at the Tower don’t just remind us of the sacrifice of the soldiers, sailors and airmen of the First World War, but also of those who followed them in later conflicts – those who stepped on to the beaches of Normandy 30 years later, those who fought in Korea, and those who, more recently, have fought in the heat of Iraq and on the dusty plains of Helmand.

Particularly this year, as we conclude our combat operations in Afghanistan, we remember those who have died and who have suffered life-changing injuries. And we particularly think of their families.

Yet, at the same time as we remember their sacrifice, we should also remember their service. The thousands of personnel who served in Afghanistan from all three Services have achieved an enormous amount. Through their efforts, they have made that country more secure and ensured that millions more Afghans can receive an education and experience a better quality of life. They have put that country on a road to recovery.

Above all, they have succeeded in our principal strategic purpose: stopping terrorists from using Afghanistan to mount attacks on British people on British streets.

And already, our forces have turned their service to new threats – policing Baltic airspace to deter Russian aggression; targeting the Isil menace in Iraq; helping to combat the spread of Ebola in West Africa.

Reflecting on the service of our Armed Forces over the years has another powerful effect. By recalling their fortitude, we come to a greater appreciation of what service itself means.

We appreciate that those soldiers, sailors and airmen were not just fighting for their country, they were fighting for our freedom and our future. It is service that connects all our Armed Forces past, present and future.

So today, as we come together as a nation, either standing at the Cenotaph or conducting acts of remembrance, let there be pride for the service, as well as sorrow for the sacrifice.

We will remember the fallen not just with sadness, but also with eternal respect and gratitude, in the knowledge that we are living the future they fought for.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141109eab9000v7


NEWS
I fought for my life after a car hit me, now I’m fighting to change the law
By Victoria Lambert
2020 words
9 November 2014
01:50 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Family of Miriam Parker campaign for change in the law after she suffered horrific injuries when she was hit by a car

Had Miriam Parker’s life gone to plan, she would now be at the University of Nottingham, in her first term as an undergraduate studying nursing.

Miriam, 18, would be wrapped up in life as a fresher, making new friends and enjoying her independence, while studying towards her long-term goal of working as a nurse in Africa’s most troubled areas, perhaps even Ebola-hit Sierra Leone.

Instead, Miriam is living at home in Carshalton, Surrey, dependent on her mother Davina, and wrapped up in a different sort of experience – receiving 10 hours of therapy a week.

Because, 11 months ago, this beautiful, bright young student was the subject of a catastrophic road accident, when a careless driver sped through a red light on a pedestrian crossing, hitting her and leaving her close to death.

Since the accident in south Croydon on New Year’s Day, Miriam has spent a month in intensive care, undergone five major operations, had to relearn to walk, talk and eat, and then watched as the man who caused her accident tried to deny responsibility, before being found guilty.

He received what, to anyone, would seem a pretty paltry sentence – a four-year driving ban and a £1,400 fine.

“We just couldn’t understand it,” says Davina, 50, a church administrator, who is also mother to Loren, 19, who is studying health and social care NVQs, and Kirsty, 21, who is reading law at the University of Bristol.

“It was very disappointing after what had happened. But we were advised there was no provision in the law for a tougher sentence that might make others drive more responsibly. We feel we must now campaign for a change in the law to help others in our situation.”

It is a dignified and thoughtful reaction. A devout Christian, Davina has handled her daughter’s experience with astonishing grace. It has tested her family to the limits, and left Miriam with injuries that may well last for life.

The first she knew of the accident was at about 9pm, as she returned home from a friend’s 50th birthday party, when her daughter Loren phoned her.

''She said, 'Mum – the police want you to call them on Miriam’s phone.’ I rang immediately, and a policeman told me that Miriam had been involved in a road traffic accident and that they couldn’t give me any details, but that a police car would collect me from my home in five minutes.

“I realised immediately that something serious must have happened. When I looked outside, the patrol car was already waiting for me. And then we were driving so fast, I thought she must be dead. All I could do was pray.”

At St George’s Hospital, Tooting, Davina waited with Kirsty, who had accompanied her in the police car. They later learnt that Miriam was being treated at the scene, and it was an hour before she was stable enough to be brought to A&E. Miriam was taken straight into the intensive care unit (ICU), and nearly three more hours passed before Davina was allowed to see her.

“It was shocking,” she says now. “Her face was so black and purple and swollen I could hardly recognise her.”

Miriam’s condition deteriorated sharply and staff – worried she had begun to bleed in the brain – rushed her into surgery. “It was just awful,” says Davina. The vicar from Holy Trinity Church, Wallington, where the family worship, and several members of the church, had arrived for support. Others set up a prayer chain to pray through the night for Miriam’s survival.

At 3am, Miriam was brought out of theatre and taken back into ICU, where Davina and Kirsty guarded her bedside. At 7am, she was dashed back into surgery when a bleed was suspected behind the pupil of her left eye. “We were told it was touch and go, that Miriam might not live,” says Davina.

Six days after the accident, Miriam’s brain was still swelling, and surgeons operated to remove a large section of bone at the front of her head. They induced a coma, and told Davina nothing more could be done. “We were given no promises, no one could predict if she would ever regain consciousness, or if she would be left in a vegetative state.”

Davina stayed at the hospital sleeping – occasionally – in a chair for the next three weeks. She recalls being sustained by friends and family, and knowing that the congregation at Holy Trinity were praying for Miriam constantly. “I ate when people put food in front of me, I washed at the little sink in the loo and managed with wet wipes. I was exhausted but I couldn’t leave Miriam for a moment.

“It was awful, but people were so supportive and kind. So many others there were in the same boat, and we tried to help each other. Yet this was intensive care, and people were dying round us. Three people passed away in the bed next to Miriam’s while she lay there fighting for her life.”

Throughout, the nurses’ care never faltered. “They were fantastic. Most of Miriam’s long hair had been cut off before the operation, but one nurse carefully washed and plaited the little bit of hair she had left. They made sure her soft toy pug was always touching her.”

As the month dragged on, Miriam was slowly brought out of the coma, the left side of her body completely paralysed at this point. “We didn’t know if she would recognise us,’’ admits Davina. “But then Miriam was still intubated at this point, and had to answer questions pointing to 'Yes’ or 'No’ on a chart. Doctors told us she wouldn’t remember any of this time. And we were warned she might lose her memory altogether.”

At the end of January, Miriam was moved up to the head injuries ward and left ICU – a triumph in itself. And here, her speech came back.

“My first words,” says Miriam, “were, 'Hi Mum. I love you.’ ”

“I cried,” says Davina. “Then Miriam spilled out rather a lot of other words – all of them rude. She was swearing and swearing away. I thought, 'Goodness, is this what she is going to be like from now on?’”

“Well, I was so frustrated,” explains Miriam, with a grin. “I’d been more and more aware of what was happening and I just sort of exploded.”

It turned out that Miriam had begun to make sense of her situation not long after she had come out of the coma, but had been unable to speak. Questions and worries had been building up inside her.

“It took ages to understand where I was and why,” she says. “I was convinced that I had been chasing my sister along the landing at home, fighting over nail varnish, and that I must have fallen down the stairs. I couldn’t remember the car accident at all.”

Miriam was shown newspaper cuttings until she made sense of it. Nor could she accept that a month had passed. “I was so confused. Everything was scrambled.”

Her body began to heal. At first, she was too weak to sit up but gradually, with physio, her strength returned and she learnt how to stand again. By March, she was walking, head protected by a special custom-made helmet in case of a fall.

In April, Miriam was discharged to a rehabilitation centre run by The Children’s Trust at nearby Tadworth, which caters for under-18s with head injuries. “It is a lovely place; I had my own room, and the staff were fantastic,” says Miriam.

At nearly 18, she was the eldest there, and like most young women, conscious of her appearance. “I hated having no hair.” Ever resourceful, she found out about the Little Princess Trust – a charity that provides real hair wigs for children who lose their hair. Within a week, the charity provided her with a smart strawberry blonde wig.

Miriam stayed at Tadworth for 14 weeks, before being readmitted to St George’s in August to have permanent metal plates put into her skull. Almost immediately her brain began to swell again, and she woke up with two “beautiful black eyes” as her mother puts it. She was taken back into theatre and a ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunt inserted. This is a permanent internal tube that stretches from the brain down to the stomach, to drain any future fluids away.

After two weeks Miriam was discharged and as of September, went back to school – Archbishop Tenison’s in Croydon, where she restarted Year 13. Despite spending 10 hours a week on various therapies – she still has some paralysis in her left hand and her right arm is numb in parts – Miriam is determined to get the best grades she can, working hard at her studies.

But she admits to missing her friends who are at university. “Sometimes I feel left behind,” she says, her cheerful front slipping slightly.

Davina admits it is difficult to see her daughter’s fledgling wings clipped like this, but also that she now fears Miriam becoming independent again. “But I know she must. Of course, I just want to protect her, but she needs her freedom again.”

No wonder, then, that the family hoped for justice in the courts, and were left frustrated by the system as well as by the driver. Amin Aminullah, a chef who lived locally, tried to deny any wrongdoing, despite witnesses reporting Miriam had not been at any fault, crossing with the “green man”.

“The magistrate said he was shocked that the driver wasn’t charged with dangerous driving, but apparently the Crown Prosecution Service didn’t think they could guarantee a conviction for that.” As it is, a conviction for careless driving cannot be punished with the same level of sentencing as dangerous driving would be.

The penalty for dangerous driving is graded, dependent on the effect it has. There are different options for sentencing based on whether it leads to serious injuries, or death, which both offer a judge the opportunity for a custodial sentence.

But for careless driving, there are only two outcomes: causing death, and all other results. The magistrate in Miriam’s case could not impose a custodial sentence.

Most careless driving offences will be punished by a fine and/or up to nine points, and Davina’s family were told to expect something along these lines. In the end, the judge banned Mr Aminullah for four years, with the requirement that he must pass the advanced driving test before he can regain his licence, as well as fining him £1,400. Clearly, points out Davina, there is a gap in the law.

“The magistrate said that he felt the driving couldn’t have been any more dangerous, yet he was limited in his sentencing powers,” she says.

She is not alone in her concern. Acting Detective Inspector Mick Woollard, from the serious collision investigation unit at Catford, said at the time: “There is an unfortunate gap in the law that does not allow a charge of causing serious injury by careless driving, which would have been more appropriate in this case.” According to Davina, Tom Brake, the local MP, has also been supportive of the family.

The family has now launched an e-petition to have the law amended so that the seriousness of cases such as Miriam’s can be reflected in sentencing.

As for Miriam, her recovery really does merit that sometimes overused adjective “miraculous”. No doubt her medical care was superb, and the devotion of her sisters, friends and church cannot be overstated, but there is something admirably fierce in this 18-year-old. And something equally powerful in her mother’s love.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141109eab9000rv


Features
How the other half lives
842 words
9 November 2014
Sunday Telegraph Magazine 'Stella'
STELLA
1; National
114
English
Sunday Telegraph Magazine 'Stella' © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Settled at last

BRYONY GORDON

I think my daughter might be going through the Terrible Twos slightly early. It's like living with Veruca Salt, but I don't have a Willy Wonka to teach her a lesson. "MINE," she screams at everything she comes across, including boxes of tampons and bottles in the wine rack. "MINE!" Her vocabulary is limited, but effective: mummy, daddy, more, mine, no, no, no.

"It's just behaviour she's learnt at nursery," says my husband, as our daughter flings herself on the floor because we have refused to give her a dummy. The next day, as I pick her up from nursery, I ask her key worker if she throws tantrums with them. "Edie?" says the woman, looking surprised. "She's as good as gold. One of our best-behaved children." At this the woman bends down to ruffle Edie's hair. Edie responds by blowing a kiss and flashing a winning smile.

But within five minutes of leaving nursery, she is kicking off. I wheel her up the street, her shrieking and screaming and trying to magic her way out of the buggy straps. I sing The Wheels on The Bus, and she screams louder. I do Row, Row, Row the Boat, and start to get funny looks. I notice she is pulling off her shoes, and flinging them to the pavement. Her socks follow. I try to put them back on, but am kicked in the chest for my troubles. "Fine," I think. "She can do the rest of the journey with bare feet, despite the fact it is November."

We must look like quite a pair - her screeching and kicking her unstockinged feet into the cold winter air, while I push the buggy with a face like thunder, determined only to get home quickly so I can relent like the useless woman I am and shove a dummy in her gob. I am deaf to her whingeing, blind to her wriggling. As I think about how pathetic I am at parenting, I notice a pair of leggings go flying to the pavement. And then I notice that they belong to my daughter. It takes a while to process what has just happened - somehow, Edie has managed to take off her trousers as well as her socks and shoes. People stare, horrified. Edie sits in her buggy, naked from the nappy down, with a huge smile on her face. And I start to laugh, and Edie joins in because, honestly, what else is there to do?

Single again

LUCY CAVENDISH

I am gazing out of the window when I see Leonard getting out of his father's car. It is midday. Leonard is supposed to be at school. I go to the door to talk to his father, but he has gone. All I have is Leonard standing in front of me, yawning.

"I've been sent home," he says.

"What's the matter?" I ask him.

"I think I have Ebola," he says.

"You can't have," I say. "It is not an airborne disease." But there is no stopping Leonard. He tells me his symptoms: hot head, sore throat, chesty cough, a general malaise.

"And why else do you think it's Ebola?" I ask him.

"I've been watching the news. I'm not stupid, you know."

Four hours later, his siblings start appearing, emerging from school buses and Kristoff 's car.

"Why is Leonard here?" asks Raymond suspiciously. (Raymond and Jerry are never ill and are suspicious of anyone who is, namely Leonard, the past master of shirking.)

"He thinks he has Ebola."

Raymond claps his hands to his head. "Typical," he says. By the time Jerry gets home the news has spread. "I am not coming in," he says. "I will not move until you put him in isolation and I have protective clothing."

My daughter appears in her Hallowe'en witch's costume. She also has a cotton-wool pad clasped over her mouth.

"I want what she has," yells Jerry. "I don't want to catch his killer germs."

"He doesn't have any killer germs," I say, beginning to lose my temper.

What on earth is the matter with these children? Just then, the New Builder turns up waving a pump around. "I've come to fix your shower, my lady," he says, grinning broadly. Then he sees my daughter leaping about. "What's up?" he asks.

"My brother has Ebola and we are all going to die," trills my daughter, removing her pad for a nanosecond.

The New Builder raises his eyebrows. "You lot are mad," he says as he marches in to the house. "And your mother is a saint." Then he gives me a cheery wink and heads upstairs.

' MINE,' Edie screams at everything she comes across, including boxes of tampons and bottles in the wine rack

' I've been sent home,' says Leonard. 'What's the matter?' I ask him. 'I think I have Ebola'

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STELLA0020141109eab90000w


CULTURE
Emma Barnett: Now it's time for you to decide the news
By Emma Barnett
777 words
7 November 2014
02:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Ahead of her new radio show, The 5 Live Hit List, Emma Barnett says the news agenda should reflect the public's interests

The news agenda for the whole country used to be set by just a few people. These gatekeepers decided what stories were the biggest of the day and the most important. A small group, working across newspapers, radio and TV, dictated how much prominence a story received. They still do, of course, but now they have company: you.

The internet and, more specifically, social media, has increasingly allowed us to channel the news through our own filters; to decide which stories deserve our attention and matter enough to be shared. And it’s precisely this new lawless agenda that my new radio show, The 5 Hit List, seeks to monitor and reflect as I countdown the top 40 news stories shared online and across sites such as Facebook and Twitter from the past seven days [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/tvandradio/11158907/Radio-the-everlasting-audio-heartbeat.html] in the UK.

It’s the first time a British radio station has created a comprehensive news chart and, crucially, reversed the power structure. Normally producers and presenters have to come up with the items for a programme. That’s their power – to decide what you hear and, crucially, what you don’t. However, on my new show the public’s news tastes will always dictate what I discuss.

The chart is being made by a team of sociologists and computer scientists from a cross-section of universities (St Andrews, Warwick, Cardiff and Edinburgh). This group, collectively known as Cosmos (Collaborative Online Social Media Observatory) has developed an algorithm to analyse keywords and hashtags and rank the impact of each story that week.

A few worried Telegraph colleagues have asked what I will do if the chart only features confused cats on skateboards. Well everyone of little faith can now sleep easy for, having recorded two pilots, I can happily report that Britain’s digital news appetite is far more nuanced and entertaining than my pals had feared.

I have found myself delighted at the prominence of foreign affairs, from protests against the Dalai Lama to the myth of Rehana, a female Kurdish fighter waging war on Islamic State militants.

Of course, stories about happenings closer to home also feature heavily in the chart, such as the most recent Ukip racism row ( Mike Read – I’m looking at you [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/politics/ukip/11179244/Mike-Read-sorry-for-Ukip-Calypso-song-with-mock-Caribbean-accent.html] ), but the high level of engagement with international news has been a heartening insight.

Another insight is that, when a mainstream story has made the Hit List, the angle that’s hooked people in has been slightly left-field. Take the Ebola epidemic. Of all the possible stories, it was a campaign from a woman, Shoana Solomon, entitled “I am a Liberian not a virus” – intended to counter discrimination – that featured prominently in the chart.

However, during the pilots, I have been surprised by some of the black holes in the nation’s interests – namely the lack of politics. To date, Ukip and the Greens are the only political parties to rank. I suspect this isn’t because people aren’t interested in politics but because they aren’t obsessed with the Westminster bubble. Business is also a black hole to date ( The Apprentice [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/tvandradio/the-apprentice/] doesn't count!).

Aside from the more serious issues, the chart is obviously peppered with a healthy interest in major YouTube stars such as Cameron Dallas (a 20-year-old Californian man who makes relatively uneventful videos about his everyday existence, yet has an audience of millions) and pop bands like One Direction. Too often, however, I think we in the media sound as if we are holding our noses when we discuss these fun subjects – which dominate more of our collective lives than we care to publicly admit.

But why? Even if you don’t care for them, someone in your family will. Shouldn’t we just confess our curiosity?

Plus, these new players and their millions of digital groupies throw up some of the most fabulous characters. For example, last week I spoke to a Justin Bieber fan, Bryanna Debinder, who lost half her body weight (nearly 10 stone) in the hope of impressing her idol. She was a fantastic interviewee because her obsession provided a proper insight into the realities of modern girlhood in the digital age.

So it’s time to unpeg our noses and dive into the stories we are genuinely interested in. It’s going to be an unpredictable ride.

Emma Barnett presents The 5 Live Hit List every Sunday evening at 7.30pm

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141107eab70018k


NEWS
Burkina Faso leader resists calls to hand over power
By Agency
323 words
7 November 2014
02:08 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
International community is pressuring Isaac Yacouba Zida to move towards a civilian government and hold elections

Burkina Faso's military leader HAS lashed out at regional mediators calling for him to hand over power in the African state.

The comments from Lt. Col. Isaac Yacouba Zida come as the international community pressures him transition to a civilian government nearly a week after he declared himself in charge.

Zida's ascension came after Burkina Faso's president of 27 years fled the country amid mounting opposition to his bid for a fifth term. [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/burkinafaso/11201013/Crowds-cheer-downfall-of-Burkina-Faso-leader.html]

International envoys are pressing Burkina Faso to quickly designate a civilian leader for a transitional period until new elections can be held, and the African Union has threatened sanctions if that doesn't happen soon.

In Washington, U.S. State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said: "We continue to call for a civilian-led transition as quickly as possible."

Talks on Wednesday failed to designate a leader, but diplomats said some progress had been made: All sides have agreed that the transition should last one year and elections should be held in November 2015.

"I believe that in days, rather than in weeks, we will be able to reach an agreement and install a transitional government," Ghana's president, John Dramani Mahama, said late Wednesday after meetings ended. "I am certain that we will not reach the stage where the international community will have to impose sanctions."

Mahama, who currently chairs the regional bloc of West African states, known as Ecowas, was mediating talks along with the presidents of Senegal and Nigeria.

On Thursday, the opposition and other prominent leaders met to determine their criteria for a transitional leader and to describe how they would like the transitional period to proceed.

Ecowas is holding an emergency meeting to discuss the crisis in Burkina Faso as well as the Ebola outbreak.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141107eab7004v1


NEWS
Have aid efforts brought Ebola under control?
By Colin Freeman chief foreign correspondent
854 words
7 November 2014
08:10 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
There is cause for tentative optimism at the new treatment centres in Liberia

Until last month, sick people hoping to get into Liberia's overstretched Ebola treatment clinics knew there was one thing in their favour - not that it brought much comfort. Thanks to the virus's fearfully high fatality rate, with up to seven out of 10 patients dying, ward space was always freed up sooner or later; "bed blockers" were one problem that staff did not have to worry about.

Today it is all rather different. At the main Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) clinic in the capital, Monrovia, a facility built for 250 people now has only around 60 patients. Further north in Foya, a forest-bound area that has been among the worst-hit, a 150-bed treatment clinic run by a different organisation was empty last week.

It could not be more different from when I visited Liberia in September: MSF staff in Monrovia were turning away up to 30 people a day[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11118025/I-have-never-seen-this-number-of-bodies-before-Life-at-an-Ebola-clinic-in-Liberia.html], leaving some of them dying outside. Even for an aid agency used to working in the toughest of conditions, it was a morale-sapping experience, as Stefan Liljegren, the clinic's field co-ordinator, made clear.

"How much worse will it get?" he said. "I have no idea."

Now, though, it seems we may have some idea - and that at last there may be signs of a breakthrough, or at least progress of a sort. The World Health Organisation, after months of grim warnings, last week confirmed a decline in the virus's spread in Liberia, the worst affected country so far. And on Wednesday, it dramatically reduced its estimate of the fatalities in Sierra Leone, saying it was nearer 1,000 rather than 1,500.

What this demonstrates is the paucity of reliable data in countries where the health service has been all but paralysed by the virus, and where there are no real figures, only educated guesswork. The new WHO figures are simply a revised set of estimates, and as such must be treated with caution.

But even so, most health officials now believe there are grounds for tentative optimism. Thanks to the massive international aid effort led by Britain and America, large numbers of new treatment centres are now being built in Sierra Leone and Liberia. Meanwhile, intensive public health campaigns have finally convinced people that Ebola is not a judgment from God, a witch doctor's curse, or simply a disease that does not exist. The virus itself, sadly, has been the most formidable public educator of all - after nearly 5,000 deaths across West Africa, far fewer people now ignore the rules about touching bodies at funerals or shaking hands.

None the less, while staff at the MSF clinic in Monrovia are no longer overwhelmed, few expect to pack up their makeshift clinic's rows of white tents any time soon. Natasha Reyes, the charity's medical co-ordinator in Liberia, said there may have been "a behavioural change", but she believed that some Ebola sufferers may simply be choosing to die in company at home rather than alone in an isolation clinic. "It is too early to make any real conclusions," she insisted.

So when might we be able to? Epidemiologists are focused not on a timeline, but on a particular formula called the Reproductive Ratio[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11213280/Magic-formula-that-will-determine-whether-Ebola-is-beaten.html] . Known as R0, or "R-nought", this is a basic measure of Ebola's infectiousness. Its current value is between 1.7 and 2.0, which means that every 10 people who become infected will pass the virus on to another 17-20 people before they either die or fight the virus off. If 70 per cent of infected patients can be put in clinical isolation - a figure that may be possible given American and British-led efforts - that ratio will hopefully diminish to less than 1.0, at which point the number of new cases for every set of existing ones should start to fall.

By that criteria, the epidemic could be over by late January, according to America's Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. And should that welcome moment come, there will no doubt be those who conclude that this has been yet another global health scare in the manner of the Sars virus, for which the £225 million that Britain has committed to Sierra Leone is yet another example of our bottomless aid budget.

But bear in mind that international disease epidemics are not cost- or resource-predictable beasts. Arguably, the only appropriate level of response is the one that stops it in its tracks.

Besides, even if West Africa is eventually given the Ebola all-clear, it has effectively spent six months in an economic and political coma. Quite apart from the psychological impact of suffering a modernday equivalent of the bubonic plague, government services have all but collapsed, schools have been shut, and businesses forced to the wall. The patient may pull through, but the period of convalescence is likely to be long and painful.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141107eab7003bp


African migrants spark Ebola scare on Gran Canaria beach
By Leon Siciliano Video source Newsflare / borjasuarez
155 words
7 November 2014
08:09 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Migrants arriving on a beach in Gran Canaria trigger Ebola fears after it is learned some are sick and have travelled from Sierra Leone and Guinea

This video shows a group of migrants who sparked an Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] fear frenzy after arriving on a beach in the Canary Islands on Wednesday.

According to the filmer, 21 men arrived on Maspalomas beach at around 08:30am and were transported away by local authorities while startled tourists and beach-goers watch the scene unfold.

According to local media several of the migrants said they were from Sierra Leone[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/sierraleone/] and Guinea[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] - countries badly affected by the current ebola outbreak - and a number of them reported having symptoms associated with the disease.

Local authorities later confirmed none of the group were carrying the deadly virus, although four were taken to hospital with health issues.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141107eab70038p


FINANCE
Which country's stock market is performing best this year?
By John Ficenec
315 words
7 November 2014
04:47 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A new prime minister with a pro-business stance has boosted returns on the Indian stock market

The best performing stock market this year has been in India, where investors have cheered the new prime minister, Narendra Modi, and his pro-business stance.

The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex Index in India has increased 34pc so far this year, according to the latest figures from S&PDow Jones.

Markets in India have soared since the new prime minister, who gained prominence as governor of Gujarat state, started looking like a national winner in March.

Emerging markets as a whole are up 3.79pc to the end of October and have outperformed developed markets, which are up 2.45pc during the same period.

India and Qatar, also up 29.5pc so far, have led the way for emerging markets in 2014 while Greece and Russia have held the market back slumping by 29.5pc and 25pc respectively.

The developed markets have been driven by a strong performance in the US this year, up 8.2pc so far, and Denmark, up 11.6pc, while developed markets excluding the US have actually fallen 4.24pc.

October proved to be a particularly tricky month for stock markets worldwide.

Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S&PDow Jones Indices, said: “There is no easy way to put it - the market was a mess this month [October]. Concerns over European, Japanese and Chinese growth, lower oil prices reducing income for sovereign nations, and an Ebola scare pushed stocks down in the first part of the month, as several markets went into correction mode (off at least 10pc from their high).”

While the month ended with a positive return, 37 of the 48 countries closed lower, as the US pulled global market up.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141107eab7001jn


Lucy Cavendish's son is sent home from school feeling unwell
By Lucy Cavendish
401 words
7 November 2014
04:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
How the other half lives: Leonard is ill - and trying to convince Lucy Cavendish it's Ebola

I am gazing out of the window when I see Leonard getting out of his father’s car. It is midday. Leonard is supposed to be at school. I go to the door to talk to his father, but he has gone. All I have is Leonard standing in front of me, yawning.

“I’ve been sent home,” he says.

“What’s the matter?” I ask him.

“I think I have Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/],” he says.

“You can’t have,” I say. “It is not an airborne disease.”

But there is no stopping Leonard. He tells me his symptoms: hot head, sore throat, chesty cough, a general malaise.

“And why else do you think it’s Ebola?” I ask him.

“I’ve been watching the news. I’m not stupid, you know.”

Four hours later, his siblings start appearing, emerging from school buses and Kristoff’s car.

“Why is Leonard here?” asks Raymond suspiciously. (Raymond and Jerry are never ill and are suspicious of anyone who is, namely Leonard, the past master of shirking.)

“He thinks he has Ebola.”

Raymond claps his hands to his head. “Typical,” he says.

By the time Jerry gets home the news has spread. “I am not coming in,” he says. “I will not move until you put him in isolation and I have protective clothing.”

My daughter appears in her Hallowe’en[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/picturegalleries/howaboutthat/11186712/Halloween-2014-The-best-pumpkins-and-costumes-of-the-spooky-season.html]witch’s costume. She also has a cotton-wool pad clasped over her mouth.

“I want what she has,” yells Jerry. “I don’t want to catch his killer germs.”

“He doesn’t have any killer germs,” I say, beginning to lose my temper.

What on earth is the matter with these children? Just then, the New Builder turns up waving a pump around. “I’ve come to fix your shower, my lady,” he says, grinning broadly. Then he sees my daughter leaping about. “What’s up?” he asks.

“My brother has Ebola and we are all going to die,” trills my daughter, removing her pad for a nanosecond.

The New Builder raises his eyebrows. “You lot are mad,” he says as he marches in to the house. “And your mother is a saint.” Then he gives me a cheery wink and heads upstairs.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141107eab700233


TECH
Facebook joins the fight against Ebola
By Sophie Curtis
389 words
6 November 2014
12:24 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Facebook is urging users to donate to Ebola charities with the launch of a 'donate now' button in the coming weeks

Facebook has announced it is joining the fight against Ebola with the launch of a new 'donate now' button that allows people to give money to Ebola charities directly through the social network.

Over the next week, Facebook users will see a message appear at the top of their News Feed with an option to donate to one of three different charities: International Medical Corps, the Red Cross or Save the Children.

All of the money donated will go directly to the charities working on the ground in West Africa.

If they want to, users can also share the fact that they have donated on Facebook, helping to raise awareness and encouraging friends to donate as well.

"In times of crisis, people turn to Facebook to learn about what’s happening, share their experiences and offer support," said Naomi Gleit, Facebook's vice president of product management and Chris Daniels, vice president of Internet.org in a blog post[http://newsroom.fb.com/news/2014/11/coming-together-to-fight-ebola/] .

"Organizations involved in the fight against Ebola are using Facebook to raise funds for their relief efforts. We want to amplify these calls for action and help organizations connect directly with people around the world."

Commenting on the news, Kevin Noone, executive director for International Medical Corps UK said: "Facebook’s robust leadership and extraordinary scope will help educate millions of people about the Ebola crisis."

Facebook is also working with UNICEF to provide information about Ebola symptoms and treatment to people in affected and neighboring regions.

These UNICEF messages, which appear in people's News Feeds in the appropriate local language, focus on Ebola detection, prevention and treatment.

A separate initiative in collaboration with NetHope (a consortium of 41 international NGOs) aims to to provide communications capacity to medical and aid workers.

Facebook is donating 100 mobile satellite communication terminals for deployment in remote areas of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone to provide mobile broadband and telephony services.

"If not addressed, the Ebola epidemic could become a long-term global health crisis," said Gleit and Daniels. "Together with our partners, we’re hopeful that by offering people the tools they need, we can all help fight this disease."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141106eab6003mp


NEWS
Magic formula that will determine whether Ebola is beaten
By Colin Freeman Chief foreign correspondent
632 words
6 November 2014
09:43 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
As signs emerge of progress in the battle against Ebola, medics' eyes are on 'R-naught' - the virus's 'Reproductivity Ratio', a vital factor in controlling the epidemic

Is West Africa turning the corner in the fight against Ebola? On Wednesday, the World Health Organisationreduced its estimate of the number of fatalites from the viru[http://www.reuters.com/article/2014/11/05/us-health-ebola-who-toll-idUSKBN0IP2ID20141105]s[http://www.reuters.com/article/2014/11/05/us-health-ebola-who-toll-idUSKBN0IP2ID20141105], saying that there had been more than 400 fewer deaths than previously thought in Sierra Leone. Last week, meanwhile, the WHO said it was seeing a decline in the virus's spread in Liberia, the worst-affected country so far, with a fall in the numbers admitted to clinics for treatment.

Health experts stress that it's too early yet to be optimistic. The fall in deaths in Sierra Leone, for example, is due to a new method of recording and analysing reported fatalities, which has always involved a degree of guesswork because of the havoc that Ebola has wreaked on health care systems. Such is the strain that many bodies are simply buried first without testing to see whether the cause of death was Ebola or another illness such as malaria.

Likewise, while Ebola clinics in Liberia are no longer having to turn away patients - some are now only half-full - aid workers believe that may be because Ebola sufferers are avoiding them altogether. Another explanation is that the drop may be a simple statistical "blip". This could be due either to the continuing lack of reliable statistics, or the possibility that the virus has encountered temporary - and random - bottlenecks in its spread.

Either way, though, there is one statistic that epidemiologists keep a very close eye on. This is the so-called Reproductive Ratio, the rate at which the virus passes from infected person to the next. Known as R0, or "R-naught", this is a basic measure of its infectivity. Ebola's current R0 value is between 1.7 and 2.0, which means that every ten people who become infected will probably pass the virus onto another 17-20 people before they either die or fight the virus off. The R0 value varies in different areas of west Africa, and is typically highest in places where health education messages have either not reached the community or are being ignored.

Luckily, Ebola's RO measure is actually relatively low compared to some other illnesses. Measles - a far more infectious disease - has an R0 value about 18, while a common cold has an R0 value of between two and three. This reflects the fact that while Ebola is highly lethal when it infects someone - at least 40 per cent of people usually die - the virus is actually quite poor at "host to host" transmission. Rather than being airborne, like the common cold, it is passed on only by bodily fluids, and even then, detergents such as chlorine or hand sanitiser will kill it off.

The aim of the epidemiologists is to reduce the R0 of the current Ebola outbreak to below 1.0 - at which point, the number of new cases for every set of existing ones should start to diminish. To do that, though, medics estimate that they will have to be able to put around 70 per cent of infected patients in clinical isolation. With the British and US militaries now building large number of new treatment clinics in both Sierra Leone and Liberia alike, that now looks like a possibility, provided that they can be staffed adequately. America's Centre for Disease Control and Prevention believes that if 70 per cent of infected people are in such isolation[http://www.cdc.gov.proxy.bc.edu/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/su6303a1.htm] by late December 2014, then the epidemic will be over by January 20 of next year.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141106eab60038t


CULTURE
Country Music Awards 2014: Miranda Lambert wins four prizes
By Martin Chilton Culturee Editor online
679 words
6 November 2014
05:22 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
As Miranda Lambert and Luke Bryan win top CMA awards, the hosts joke that Taylor Swift's defection to pop caused Barack Obama and southern Democrats to lose the Senate elections

Miranda Lambert won four honours at the Country Music Association awards, including beating Taylor Swift to the coveted female vocalist of the year.

Swift wasn't forgotten at the awards in Nashville, however, with co-hosts Carrie Underwood and Brad Paisley gently ribbing the singer (who is is Japan promoting her new album 1989) for her conversion to pop. “I’ll be the first one to say it: President Obama does not care about post-partum Taylor Swift Disorder," said Paisley, with Underwood adding: “I’m pretty sure that’s why the Democrats lost the Senate."

The quip, about the Republicans winning control of the Senate in Tuesday's elections, brought laughter from the crowd.

It sounds like the pair were in comedy mode, with the Washington Post reporting that their monologue, possibly in bad taste, tackled Ebola (with a parody song called Quarantine to the tune of Jolene) and recent nude photo hacking (with a parody of I Walk the Line: “I take naked selfies all the time/I’m scared I’ll find/They’ve leaked online”).

Lambert, who had been nominated for seven awards in all, didn't have it all her own way. She was beaten by Luke Bryan to the prestigious entertainer of the year prize.

Kacey Musgraves's Follow Your Arrow, noted for its gay-friendly message and references to marijuana, won the songwriters' award song of the year. She shared the accolade with fellow songwriters Brandy Clark and Shane McAnally. "This award means so much because our genre was built on strong, simple songs about real life," said Musgraves, 26. "The fans and people who connected with it took it farther than I thought it ever could go."

CMA 2014 WINNERS IN FULL

Entertainer of the Year

Luke Bryan WINNER

Miranda Lambert

Blake Shelton

George Strait

Keith Urban

Female Vocalist of the Year

Miranda Lambert WINNER

Martina McBride

Kacey Musgraves

Taylor Swift

Carrie Underwood

Male Vocalist of the Year

Dierks Bentley

Luke Bryan

Eric Church

Blake Shelton *WINNER*

Keith Urban

Vocal Group of the Year

Eli Young Band

Lady Antebellum

Little Big Town WINNER

The Band Perry

Zac Brown Band

Vocal Duo Of The Year

Dan + Shay

Florida Georgia Line WINNER

Love & Theft

The Swon Brothers

Thompson Square

New Artist Of The Year

Brandy Clark

Brett Eldredge WINNER

Kip Moore

Thomas Rhett

Cole Swindell

Album of the Year

Crash My Party by Luke Bryan

Fuse by Keith Urban

Platinum by Miranda Lambert WINNER

Riser by Dierks Bentley

The Outsiders Eric Church [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/music/worldfolkandjazz/11077933/All-My-Friends-Celebrating-The-Songs-and-Voice-of-Gregg-Allman-various-artists-album-review.html]

Single of the Year

Automatic by Miranda Lambert WINNER

Drunk On A Plane by Dierks Bentley

Give Me Back My Hometown by Eric Church

Meanwhile Back At Mama’s by Tim McGraw, featuring Faith Hill

Mine Would Be You by Blake Shelton

Song Of The Year

Automatic Miranda Lambert (written by Miranda Lambert, Nicolle Galyon and Natalie Hemby)

Follow Your Arrow Kacey Musgraves (written by Kacey Musgraves, Brandy Clark and Shane McAnally) WINNER

Give Me Back My Hometown Eric Church (written by Eric Church and Luke Laird)

I Don’t Dance Lee Brice (written by Lee Brice, Dallas Davidson and Rob Hatch)

I Hold On Dierks Bentley (written by Dierks Bentley and Brett James)

Vocal Event Of The Year

Bakersfield, Vince Gill and Paul Franklin

Meanwhile Back At Mama’s, Tim McGraw, featuring Faith Hill

Somethin’ Bad Miranda Lambert and Carrie Underwood

We Were Us, Keith Urban and Miranda Lambert WINNER

Can’t Make Old Friends, Dolly Parton[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/glastonbury/10816873/Dolly-Parton-30-best-songs.html] and Kenny Rogers

Video Of The Year

Automatic Miranda Lambert (directed by Trey Fanjoy)

Bartender Lady Antebellum (directed by Shane Drake)

Drunk on a Plane Dierks Bentley (directed by Wes Edwards) WINNER

Follow Your Arrow Kacey Musgraves (directed by Kacey Musgraves and Honey)

Somethin’ Bad Carrie Underwood and Miranda Lambert (directed by Trey Fanjoy)

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141106eab600233


NEWS
Can Obama and Republicans work together? 8 things the parties can – and can't – agree upon
By David Lawler Raf Sanchez, Washington
579 words
6 November 2014
03:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Obama and the new Republican congress will fight over a lot – but there are some areas on which they can work together over the next two years

Is there any reason to hope that Barack Obama and the Republicans will get on better in the next two years than they did in the last four?

On a number of major issues, including Obamacare and immigration, they're heading for serious fights.

But both Mr Obama and Mitch McConnell, the incoming senate majority leader, made conciliatory noises on Wednesday and expressed their hopes for a new era where Washington will "get back to work" for the American people.

Here are some of the areas on potential agreement:

Confronting the Islamic State

Mr Obama said on Wednesday that he was interested in passing formal legislation authorising US operations against Isil and would invite Republicans to the White House Friday to meet with senior generals and discuss the issue. Republicans have said they are open to such legislation, known as an authorisation for use of military force (AUMF).

Fighting Ebola

Mr McConnell said his "immediate concern" as the new majority leader would be to confront the Ebola crisis. He has signalled that Republicans are open to supporting White House requests for few funds, which Mr Obama said would happen before the end of the year.

Trade agreements

The White House is eager to secure a free-trade agreement with Europe, which would be a major legacy issue for Mr Obama. However, he has struggled to convince members of his own party, many of whom are allies with trade unions, to support him. Ironically, he may find a more receptive audience with free-market Republicans than with his own Democrat allies.

Tax reform

Promising to modernise America's antiquated tax code and close corporate loopholes has long been low-hanging fruit in political campaigns across the country. But despite the talk, little progress has been made. Both Mr Obama and Mr McConnell said they were open to tax reform.

But don't expect harmony to break out in Washington too soon. There are still a number of major issues where the two parties are likely to clash.

Minimum wage

Mr Obama and the Democrats want to see the national minimum wage raised to $10.10 an hour. Republicans have continually blocked such proposals and are unlikely to advance them now that they are fully in control of Congress.

Immigration

Mr Obama has long said he is determined to reform America's immigration system, even if it means going around Congress and using executive authorities. Republicans have warned him that such a move would scupper cooperation.

Keystone pipeline

Republicans claim the massive Keystone oil pipeline project would add jobs and contribute to US energy independence and are almost certain to pass legislation demanding its approval. Mr Obama will then have to decide whether or not to block the project, which is popular in the country but opposed by environmentalists.

Obamacare

Republicans have always hated the President's healthcare law and said today they would use their majorities to try to strike down part of it. Their focus is on the individual mandate, a portion of the law that forces people to buy health insurance or face a fine. "The individual mandate is a line I can’t cross," Mr Obama said

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141106eab6001b9


News
British Ebola clinic opens for patients in Sierra Leone
Colin Freeman
221 words
6 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
22
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
AN EBOLA treatment clinic built in just eight weeks by British troops has admitted its first patients in Sierra Leone.

The clinic is one of six British–built centres that will eventually operate across the west African nation, where the deaths of more than 1,000 people from Ebola have underscored the urgent shortage of treatment facilities.

The centre, which is based in Kerry Town, south of the capital Freetown, is capable of caring for up to 80 victims of the virus at a time.

Britain is spearheading the international efforts to fight Ebola in Sierra Leone – a former colony – with £225million earmarked in total. The aid programme will eventually create 700 Ebola treatment beds, catering for up to 8,800 patients over six months, funding for burial teams, and up to 200 new community care centres. The clinic in Kerry Town is being run by Save the Children alongside a 12–bed centre staffed by Army medical staff and set aside to treat health care workers and international staff should they become infected.

President Barack Obama last night asked Congress for $6.2 billion (£3.9 billion) in emergency funds to confront Ebola at its source in West Africa and to secure the US against any possible spread.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141106eab600088


News
British Ebola clinic opens for patients in Sierra Leone
Colin Freeman
213 words
6 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
22
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
AN EBOLA treatment clinic built in just eight weeks by British troops has admitted its first patients in Sierra Leone.

The clinic is one of six British–built centres that will eventually operate across the west African nation, where the deaths of more than 1,000 people from Ebola have underscored the urgent shortage of treatment facilities.

The centre, which is based in Kerry Town, south of the capital Freetown, is capable of caring for up to 80 victims of the virus at a time.

Britain is spearheading the international efforts to fight Ebola in Sierra Leone – a former colony – with £225million earmarked in total.

The aid programme will eventually create 700 Ebola treatment beds, catering for up to 8,800 patients over six months, funding for burial teams, and up to 200 new community care centres.

The clinic in Kerry Town is being run by Save the Children alongside a 12–bed centre staffed by Army medical staff and set aside to treat health care workers and international staff should they become infected.

The Disasters Emergency Committee, which is made up of 13 British aid charities, said it had raised £13million for tackling Ebola, a week after its appeal launch.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141106eab60005u


NEWS
How did Barack Obama fall from grace?
By Dr Walter C. Ladwig III King's College London
915 words
5 November 2014
06:01 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Big Question: Of all of the two-term presidents since the Second World War, only George W. Bush was held in less esteem in the eyes of the American people at this point in his tenure. How did this turn around for Obama happen so quickly?

In 2012, Barack Obama became the first Democrat since FDR to win a majority of the electorate in consecutive elections. Yet, less than two years later, he appears to be a political leper, as a number of Democratic senate candidates seek to distance themselves from him or in some extreme cases, even refuse to admit they voted for him[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-fix/wp/2014/10/09/40-painful-seconds-of-alison-lundergan-grimes-refusing-to-say-whether-she-voted-for-president-obama/] .

Lower approval ratings are part and parcel of a second term.

However, of all of the two-term presidents since World War II, only George W. Bush was held in less esteem in the eyes of the American people at this point in his tenure. How did this turn around happen so quickly?

There is no simple answer to the question. However, the leading factors are America’s anemic economy combined with the poor management of a series of domestic and foreign policy crises, which has exposed the ineffectiveness of the president’s leadership style.

It’s still the economy, stupid

Like any president, Barak Obama has very little ability to actually affect economic performance.

However, it is the barometer with which voters judge the incumbent. By some accounts the American public should be viewing its president with far more adoring eyes: Under Obama 10 million jobs have been added to the US economy; unemployment has dipped under 6 per cent for the first time since the financial crisis; and the stock market is registering all time highs.

However, a large portion of those new jobs are low-wage or part-time[http://www.nelp.org/page/content/lowwagerecovery2014/] and the number of Americans in work or searching for work is at a 37 year low[http://data.bls.gov/timeseries/LNS11300000], suggesting that many who lost their jobs have simply given up. Consequently, median household income remains lower today than in 2008[http://www.theatlantic.com.proxy.bc.edu/business/archive/2014/10/why-cant-people-feel-the-economic-recovery/381425/] and 54 per cent of Americans[http://www.gallup.com/poll/179129/economic-confidence-index-highest-year.aspx] still perceive that the economy is getting worse.

Micromanager in Chief?

One would have to go back to Nixon, if not further, to find an administration where power was so concentrated in the White House and the president insisted on taking all decisions, large and small. This has resulted in an extremely inward-looking and stunted policy-process whereby members of Obama’s own cabinet and the executive agencies they lead are frequently excluded from decision-making. Even congressional Democrats complain about the lack of consultation.

If a president has the competence, judgment and intelligence to run affairs largely on their own, such an approach might work for a short time. However, Mr Obama’s obsession with controlling affairs creates bottlenecks in the policy process and his reliance on personal loyalists rather than policy experts ensures that he is not being served by the best and the brightest. The risk of this highly personalized style is that there is no one else to blame when things go wrong.

Failing to deliver at home

The two-month fiasco surrounding the implementation of the Affordable Care Act not only diminished public support for Mr Obama’s main legislative achievement, but also sent his job approval ratings and perceptions of his leadership ability to career lows.

A host of scandals involving the Veteran’s Health Administration and the domestic surveillance operations of the National Security Agency further eroded trust in the President and confidence in his leadership.

No refuge abroad

Foreign policy is traditionally the venue where presidents have the most freedom to make their mark, and where they tend to focus when their domestic agenda stagnates.

However, this realm has been a source of even more headaches for Mr Obama.

The tightly controlled decision-making process[http://www.theatlantic.com.proxy.bc.edu/international/archive/2014/10/obama-micromanager-syria-foreign-policy/381292/] in the White House has meant that the administration is slow to react to a variety of quickly moving crises, be it Putin’s military adventures in the Ukraine, Chinese aggressiveness in the South China Sea, the flood of illegal immigrants from Central America triggered by promises of amnesty, the emergence of Isil in Syria and Iraq, or the outbreak of Ebola. Moreover, several of these events have their roots in the White House’s failed policies[http://www.theatlantic.com.proxy.bc.edu/international/archive/2014/10/obama-micromanager-syria-foreign-policy/381292/] .

Administration supporters, such as US Ambassador Matthew Barzun, have bravely suggested that the president is pursuing a pragmatic[http://www.standard.co.uk/comment/comment/matthew-barzun-we-could-use-some-alistair-cooke-magic-today-9820559.html] evidence-based approach to international relations. However, the critiques of Obama’s lack of strategy, ad-hoc decision-making, and general hands off approach to foreign policy leveled by senior officials who served him, such as Hillary Clinton, Leon Panetta, and Robert Gates, give lie to that notion[http://www.latimes.com/nation/la-na-obama-critics-20141008-story.html] .

Americans have come to expect their president to provide leadership in foreign affairs, but instead they seem to be getting begrudging crisis management.

Two years is a long time in politics. Unlike many of his presidential predecessors, Mr Obama is fortunate that his troubles are not the result of a major scandal like Whitewater or Iran-Contra, but largely come from self-inflicted wounds.

The good news is that this provides an opportunity for a recovery.

The bad news is that Mr Obama will have to take a long, hard look in the mirror, where he will see the problem staring back at him.

Dr Walter C. Ladwig III [http://www.kcl.ac.uk/sspp/departments/warstudies/people/lecturers/ladwig.aspx] is Lecturer in International Relations at King's College London

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141105eab500335


NEWS
Ebola not spread by zombies, says minister
By Keith Perry
294 words
5 November 2014
04:48 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
International Development Minister Desmond Swayne tells the Commons a constituent believed zombies were responsible for the escalation of ebola

International Development Minister Desmond Swayne has dismissed concerns that Ebola is spread by zombies.

The Tory front-bencher told the Commons he had to enlighten a constituent who believed zombies were responsible for the escalation of the killer virus.

But Mr Swayne noted the "irony" of Ebola is that people are capable of causing infection when they are dead.

MPs heard there have been around 5,000 deaths and 14,000 cases of Ebola, as of the end of October, during the ongoing outbreak in West Africa.

Speaking during an adjournment debate on the issue, Mr Swayne said the strategy for UK operations in Sierra Leona could be summed up as "beds, burials and communities".

He said: "Burials - we have established with our support some 83 burial teams, they have made a profound difference in Freetown.

"From only a few weeks ago with only 30 per cent of victims being buried within 24 hours, we're now at 100 per cent and that experience is going to be rolled out throughout Sierra Leone.

"A constituent wrote to me saying that he believed that Ebola was being spread by zombies and I had to disabuse him of his belief in zombies.

"But the irony is that actually people are most infective when they're dead and one of the problems is that the burial traditions, which involve intimate skin-to-skin contact and the washing of bodies, are highly infectious and so we are having to drive social change so that people can understand that they can honour their dead without being infected by them."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141105eab50053e


NEWS
British Ebola clinic opens for patients in Sierra Leone
By Colin Freeman
319 words
5 November 2014
04:25 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Up to 80 Ebola victims will be looked after at a time in the clinic based in Kerry Town, south of Freetown, the first of six in Sierra Leone

An Ebola treatment clinic built in just eight weeks by British troops has admitted its first patients in Sierra Leone.

The clinic is one of six British-built centres that will eventually operate across the west African nation, where the deaths of more than 1,000 people from Ebola have underscored the urgent shortage of treatment facilities.

Up to 80 victims of the deadly virus will eventually be looked after at a time in the centre, which is based in Kerry Town, south of the capital, Freetown.

Britain is spearheading the international efforts to fight Ebola in Sierra Leone - a former colony - with some £225 million earmarked in total.

The aid program will eventually build some 700 Ebola treatment beds, catering for up to 8,800 patients over six months, funding for burial teams, and up to 200 new community care centres.

The clinic in Kerry Town is being run by Save the Children alongside a 12-bed centre staffed by British Army medics set aside to treat health care workers and international staff should they get infected.

Justine Greening, the International Development Secretary Justine Greening said: "Patients are being turned away from hospitals, reducing their chance of survival and allowing the disease to spread. This treatment facility will give patients the care they need to fight Ebola."

The Disasters Emergency Committee, which is made up of 13 British aid charities, said it had raised £13m for tackling Ebola, a week after its appeal launch.

Meanwhile in the UK, Manchester Airport has begun screening passengers arriving from the worst-affected countries.

Ebola screening began at London's Heathrow and Gatwick Airports, and at Eurostar terminals, last month.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141105eab5004xu


NEWS
Is President Barack Obama doomed to be "the lamest duck" in recent US history?
By Ria Ivandic King's College London
739 words
5 November 2014
05:01 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The Big Question: Following the disastrous results for the Democrats in the midterm elections, just how "lame" is "lame duck" Obama, in comparison to previous presidents?

Waking up to midterm election results with the political map of America dominantly coloured in red – in favour of the Republican party – one man's life just got a bit more difficult.

With approval ratings of only 42 per cent before the poll, the Republican control of both Houses of Congress will surely guarantee President Barack Obama[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/barackobama/] a number of headaches over the next two years, as his political agenda is set to be blocked and policies such as ObamaCare put to another test.

With Mitch McConnell leading the Republican party as the new Senate Majority Leader, Mr Obama will furthermore have little leverage over the congressional Democrats after this election.

Is Mr Obama doomed to be "the lamest duck" in recent US history?

The man who was, not so long ago, the Democrat poster boy has seen his presidency undergo two terrible midterm elections in a row. In fact, having lost in total 70 House seats as of Wednesday morning, after this 2014 midterm election his presidency has witnessed the worst outcome of any two-term president going back to Harry S. Truman.

And after his reelection in 2010, the electorate has largely dismissed his promise of delivering "hope and change."

Today, most of Americans disapprove of the president's leadership. The highest dissatisfaction has been derived from the bumpy road to universal ObamaCare, his Middle Eastern foreign policy and, just recently, the handling of the Ebola crisis – while a jobless economic recovery and the lack of momentum for immigration reform has cut strong support from his own electorate.

And the Democrats were well aware of this, and had kept Mr Obama at a distance in the White House – sending Hillary and Bill Clinton to do most of the campaigning.

As the results were coming in on Tuesday night across the Atlantic, Republicans met expectations by winning the control of the US Senate.

With 240 Republican wins in the House (where 218 is needed for a majority) and 52 wins in the Senate (where Alaska and Louisiana face a run-off with potentially two additional seats), a natural reaction is to point the finger at Mr Obama.

However, one should be careful about solely pinpointing today's results to the president – as two important factors have contributed significantly.

Since the beginning of the 20th century, in 19 of the 28 midterm elections the incumbent president's party has performed badly in midterms, losing both House and Senate seats. This is especially consistent in sixth-year elections – such as that of Mr Obama, who was elected in 2008 – where on average the president's party has lost seven senate and 37 house seats.

Secondly, apart from the loss of support from Mr Obama's traditional electorate due to his policy choices, the hammering at the polls can also in part can be explained by the demographic variation between the electorate of presidential and midterm elections. Young people and minorities turn out in much smaller number in midterm elections, while the remaining older voters tend to be ideologically-biased towards the Republican party.

Though this suggests that the Democrats would have faced a very difficult election even with stronger popular support for Obama, the question whether the president is partially to blame for these results as he failed to show leadership on key issues is almost a rhetoric one.

However, perhaps a more important question concerns the future prospects of the 2016 White House election.

Without the ability to control the senate, Mr Obama's remaining two years in office don't offer much opportunity for the Democrats to prove their credibility and regain the votes necessary for winning the presidency again in 2016

Then again, history has shown us that even though a president's party performs badly in midterm elections, this does not affect the probability of winning the next presidential election. With Mr Obama's political lights dimming, as these midterm election campaigns have hinted, the future US politics will evolve around the next presidential election.

Ria Ivandic[https://kclpure.kcl.ac.uk/portal/en/persons/ria-ivandic(b6b9fd95-eeda-4085-bfef-a2be51ed5764).html] is a PhD student at the Department of Political Economy at King’s College London, whose research focuses on voter turnout

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141105eab50025w


News
Republicans look to give Obama a lonely end to his presidency
Peter Foster
776 words
5 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
3; National
14
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
PRESIDENT Barack Obama was facing the prospect of a long and lonely last two years in the White House last night as Republicans looked on course to take control of both houses of Congress after the mid–term elections.

As America went to the polls, three leading election forecasters were giving Republicans a 70 per cent or better chance of winning the six seats needed to take full control on Capitol Hill.

As candidates cast their ballots and made their final campaign stops, Mr Obama remained – as for much of this election cycle – holed up in the White House having closed–door meetings on the economy, the Ebola crisis and the deepening chaos in Syria and Iraq.

Recognising the likelihood of a tough night ahead, one of his only campaign interventions was to phone local radio in Connecticut to complain that Democrats were facing the toughest selection of states "since Dwight Eisenhower".

"There area lot of states that are being contested where they just tend to tilt Republican and Democrats are competitive but they tend to tilt that way," he added. Early exit polls also pointed to dif–ficulty facing Mr Obama as the man in power, with nearly eight out of 10 American saying they were worried about the economy. Two thirds felt the country was "on the wrong track".

With his personal approval rating at an all–time low thanks to a sluggish recovery and some high–profile foreign policy failures, Mr Obama has been ruthlessly targeted by Republicans who called the elections a referendum on his six years in office. Democrats have sought to point out that second–term presidents historically tend to fare poorly in mid–term polls and that key Senate races fall in Republican–friendly states, but even in usually Democrat–friendly states the news has not been good.

In Iowa, where Mr Obama scored a famous victory in the 2008 caucuses to launch his presidential campaign, and in Colorado, a state he won by a six–point margin in 2012, both the Democrat candidates have been lagging behind in the polls. Assessing the negative impact of the "Obama factor" the Gallup polling organisation said that association with an unpopular president was "particularly troublesome" for Democrats as it would suppress the high voter turnout that was their last, best hope of staging an upset.

Gallup said that Republicans would be correspondingly motivated "to deliver a blow to the president by making him deal with a unified Republican Congress in his last two years".

Despite all the positive signals, Senator Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican who will become the new majority leader of the Senate if Republicans take back control of the 100–member upper chamber, was keeping his cards close yesterday. "We are going to have a good day here in Kentucky and hopefully around the country," he said after casting his ballot in Louisville. "I'm hoping we're going to have a new majority [in the Senate] in order to take America in a new direction."

Whether Mr McConnell is really able to break the gridlock will depend on Mr Obama's willingness to cut deals, but also on whether ultra–conservative Tea Party elements in his own party are interested in compromise.

Senator Ted Cruz, a hardline Texan senator who forced a government shutdown in 2012, has declined to endorse Mr McConnell as Senate majority leader and promised to demand the repeal of health reforms if Republicans won.

The White House has said it is willing to compromise within limits, hinting that deals could be possible on infrastructure spending, tax reform and prison sentencing but analysts note that similarly warm words in 2010 and 2012 yielded little.

As the fallout from yesterday's elections unfolds, Mr Obama will embark on a nine–day tour of Asia.

Whatever the outcome, it is clear from opinion polls that most Americans are fed up with paralysis in Washington.

"Mitch is a great leader, and I hope he can hold off the hardliners," said Jim Fowler, 77, who was representative of the majority of Republican supporters interviewed during several of Mr McConnell campaign rallies this week. "I'd like all of them in Washington to start cutting a few deals. We need to get back to where we were a few years ago, get back to the old ways, compromise and get things done."

The Telegraph

US mid–term elections

Follow all the results as they come in on our live blog Analysis by Peter Foster in Kentucky Graphic: how each state voted telegraph.co.uk/world

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141105eab50007g


How today's midterms could tear up America's political landscape
By Tom Rogan
1294 words
4 November 2014
07:05 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Tom Rogan predicts how America will vote today

Today, Americans will go to the polls to elect a new Congress. All 435 seats of the House of Representatives are up for election, as are 36 of the 100 seats in the US Senate.

Here's what to expect.

The House of Representatives

It's a near certainty that the Republican Party will retake the House of Representatives. At present, the GOP has a 233-199 majority over Democrats. However, most analysts believe that the Republicans will increase their majority by around 8-12 seats. If Republicans achieve a net gain of 13 seats, they'll have their largest majority since 1928. Regardless of the figure, senior Democrats will be very anxious as tonight's results come in. To see why, just look at Politico's House prediction map. [http://www.politico.com/2014-election/predictions/house/]

The Senate

This is the big one. While Democrats currently control the Senate with a 53-45 majority, today, that majority is very much in doubt. An assessment of the key "swing seats" explains why.

Alaska

‘‘The Last Frontier’’ state. Here, Republican, Dan Sullivan faces incumbent Democratic Senator, Mark Begich. While Begich was leading earlier in the year, since August, the polls have shown Sullivan with a small but consistent lead. Serving a very "red" (or Republican) state, Begich has always faced a tough task in his battle to win re-election.

Prediction: Republican gain.

Arkansas

This is an interesting one. As I noted back in June[http://blogs.telegraph.co.uk/news/tomrogan/100277717/in-us-senate-elections-reputation-is-more-important-than-party/], incumbent Democratic Senator, Mark Pryor is in a tough fight with Republican Congressman, Tom Cotton. From a popular Arkansas political family and with a strong reputation with two key Democratic target demographics – single women and minorities – Pryor has retained favourable polling for much of the race. Yet since July, the rising campaign importance of President Obama’s leadership on issues like Isil and Ebola has hurt him. Eloquent, and with an obviously impressive personal history (two degrees from Harvard and combat deployments US Army infantry officer), Tom Cotton has painted his opponent with the brush of President Obama’s "weakness". The latest polls suggest Cotton has a 7+ lead.

Prediction: Republican gain.

Colorado

Up until early September incumbent Democratic Senator Mark Udall held a consistent lead. But as I explained recently[http://https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7i4tcfnC9oM#t=0m57s], President Obama’s political difficulties have had an increasingly negative impact on candidates like Udall. His opponent, Cory Gardner has capitalised on these difficulties to open up a small lead. Still, the race remains tight.

Prediction: Republican gain.

Georgia

With the retirement of Republican Senator, Saxby Chambliss, Georgia faces a choice between Democrat, Michelle Nunn and Republican, David Perdue. A deep red state that went for Mitt Romney by 8 per cent, many Republicans would have expected to win Georgia handily. Michelle Nunn makes that more complicated. Although she has had a series of rather embarrassing gaffes – for example, refusing to say whether she would have voted for President Obama’s health care law[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VAbfLDBvhpg] – her father is a former Senator from Georgia. And a highly popular one at that. For this reason, and because Perdue has had his own gaffes, the polls remain extremely close.

Prediction: Republican hold.

Iowa

This is the race attracting most national attention. Here, Republican, Joni Ernst is challenging Democratic candidate, Bruce Braley. Until June, Braley had a credible lead in the polls. However, since then, Ernst has grasped a small but growing lead. This is partly a result of her amusing but farmer-friendly (very important in Iowa) campaign strategy. Most notably, Ernst released an advert[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9Y24MFOfFU] suggesting her experience castrating hogs would enable her to cut wasteful spending in Washington. But Ernst’s lead is also a result of Braley’s seemingly relentless missteps. This began in March with a catastrophic video leak[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QH51LNpqZ94], where, speaking to a group of lawyer campaign donors, Braley derided Iowa farmers (not a great idea in Iowa) and promised to oppose tort reform (reforms that would cap America’s ludicrous lawsuit culture).

Prediction: Republican gain.

Kansas

Another deep red state, Kansas might normally have been expected to be an easy hold for incumbent Republican Senator, Pat Roberts. But aided by the Democratic candidate’s decision to drop out, Roberts’s Independent opponent, Greg Orman has kept within a few percentage points. In recent weeks, Roberts has capitalised by referencing his anti-abortion position with social conservative voters. The question is, how successfully?

Prediction: Republican hold.

Kentucky

If he’s re-elected and if Republicans win control of the Senate, Mitch McConnell will become Senate Majority Leader. Unpopular with some conservative Republicans who believe he’s too moderate, McConnell’s prospects were once questioned. However, his Democratic opponent, Alison Grimes has undoubtedly helped him. In perhaps the most ludicrous gaffe this year, Grimes recently refused to say whether she’d voted for Barack Obama[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3NW9kFu043E] . While that refusal tells you something about President Obama’s liability for Democratic candidates, it has also reinforced negative voter considerations of Grimes. McConnell has expanded his lead.

Prediction: Republican hold.

Louisiana

Incumbent Democratic Senator, Mary Landrieu, has strong family roots in New Orleans politics. Yet for the last few months she’s trailed her Republican opponent, Bill Cassidy. A doctor who uses his professional experience as a powerful political sword, Cassidy has hammered Landrieu for supporting President Obama’s health law. As the law is unpopular with many voters, this has been a key issue in Louisiana. As Republican strategist, Ellen Carmichael told me, Landrieu has failed ‘‘to effectively distinguish herself from the [Obama] administration and has been defiant about the law for which she cast the deciding vote’’. The latest polls show Cassidy with around a 4 per cent lead.

Prediction: Republican gain.

New Hampshire

Here, moderate Republican and former Senator from Massachusetts, Scott Brown is challenging Democratic incumbent Senator, Jeanne Shaheen. Labelling Brown as an outsider (a powerful strategy in fiercely proud New Hampshire), Shaheen has lead the polls for months. But with Shaheen struggling in recent debates[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yArSouKXYLo], Brown has improved his position in the final days. To win, Shaheen will need a strong turnout and the support of those few voters who remain undecided.

Prediction: Democratic hold.

North Carolina

Amid the looming wave of red, North Carolina is a rare source of hope for Democrats. For most of the campaign, incumbent Democrat, Kay Hagan has insulated herself from her opponent Thom Tillis’s efforts to tie her to President Obama. Popular with African-American voters and attacking Tillis as an anti-women’s rights candidate, Hagan has bucked the polling trend. This is an impressive feat in a state that went for Mitt Romney. Still, Tillis has closed the gap in recent days and this one will go down to the wire.

Prediction: Democratic hold.

The final tally … Republicans win a 53-47 majority and take control of Congress.

Why does it matter?

If the GOP does indeed win a majority, President Obama’s domestic legislative agenda will be in great jeopardy. In addition, Republicans such as Senator McCain (who, in the event of a majority, will become Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman) will pressure President Obama towards a more aggressive foreign policy. Still, as I’ve argued previously[http://theweek.com/article/index/246963/how-republicans-could-blow-their-2016-chances-in-2014], Republican leaders will also want to avoid being labelled as ideological obstructionists. Therefore, we should expect Republicans to attend meetings with President Obama and engage in at least some effort towards bipartisan cooperation. The success of any cooperation will be largely dependent on two things. First, President Obama’s willingness to compromise in pursuit of a bipartisan rather than wholly liberal legacy. Second, the willingness of Republican leaders to manage their more conservative elements.

Regardless, today’s votes are likely to dramatically alter the American political landscape.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141104eab4002e6


NEWS
Britain's spy chief says US tech firms aid terrorism
By Steven Swinford Senior Political Correspondent
894 words
4 November 2014
02:40 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
New GCHQ director Robert Hannigan accuses some Silicon Valley companies of becoming 'the command and control networks of choice' for terrorists

Technology giants such as Facebook and Twitter have become "the command and control networks of choice" for terrorists and criminals but are "in denial" about the scale of the problem, the new head of GCHQ has said.

Robert Hannigan said that Isil terrorists in Syria and Iraq have "embraced the web" and are using it to intimidate people and inspire "would-be jihadis" from all over the world to join them.

He urged the companies to work more closely with the security services, arguing that it is time for them to confront "some uncomfortable truths" and that privacy is not an "absolute right".

He suggested that unless US technology companies co-operate, new laws will be needed to ensure that intelligence agencies are able to track and pursue terrorists.

His comments represent some of the most outspoken criticism yet of US technology giants by the security services, and come amid growing tensions following leaks by whistleblower Edward Snowden.

In an article for the Financial Times[http://www.ft.com/cms/s/2/c89b6c58-6342-11e4-8a63-00144feabdc0.html#axzz3I2F0l6FM], Mr Hannigan said: "I understand why they [US technology companies] have an uneasy relationship with governments. They aspire to be neutral conduits of data and to sit outside or above politics.

"But increasingly their services not only host the material of violent extremism or child exploitation, but are the routes for the facilitation of crime and terrorism.

"However much they may dislike it, they have become the command-and-control networks of choice for terrorists and criminals, who find their services as transformational as the rest of us.

"GCHQ is happy to be part of a mature debate on privacy in the digital age. But privacy has never been an absolute right and the debate about this should not become a reason for postponing urgent and difficult decisions."

Mr Hannigan took on the role of director of GCHQ last month after a distinguished career as a senior diplomat. He was appointed to the role in the wake of the Snowden scandal to help bolster the public profile of the organisation and take a more active role in the debate about its work.

He highlighted the eruption of extremist jihadi material online on websites such as Twitter, Facebook and Whatsapp, and said that terrorists are now able to hide their identities using encryption tools which were once only available to states.

He said that in the past, al-Qaida and its terrorists have used the internet as a place to anonymously distribute material or "meet in dark spaces".

Isil, however, has taken a much more direct approach, using social networking services to get their messages across in a "language their peers understand".

He highlighted the production values of videos in which they attack towns, fire weapons and detonate explosives, saying that they have a "self-conscious online gaming quality".

He said that even the groups grotesque videos of beheadings highlight the sophistication of their use of social media. "This time the 'production values' were high and the videos stopped short of showing the actual beheading," he said.

"They have realised that too much graphic violence can be counter productive in their target audience and that by self-censoring they can stay just the right side of the rules of social media sites, capitalising on western freedom of expression."

He highlighted the use of popular terms on Twitter to broaden their appeal such as World Cup and Ebola. He said that during the advance on Mosul in Iraq the jihadists were sending 40,000 tweets a day.

Their cause has been helped by Mr Snowden as they copy his high level of encryption, with some programmes and apps even advertised as "Snowden approved". He said: "There is no doubt that young foreign fighters have learned and benefited from the leaks of the past two years".

Mr Hannigan said that families have "strong views" about the ethics of companies and do not expect the social networks they use to "facilitate murder or child abuse".

The Conservatives are pushing for a communications Bill to give the security services greater access to internet communications. The move has been blocked by the Liberal Democrats.

Mr Hannigan said: "For our part, intelligence agencies such as GCHQ need to enter the public debate about privacy. I think we have a good story to tell.

"As we celebrate the 25th anniversary of the spectacular creation that is the world wide web, we need a new deal between democratic governments and the technology companies in the area of protecting our citizens.

"It should be a deal rooted in the democratic values we share. That means addressing some uncomfortable truths. Better to do it now than in the aftermath of greater violence."

Facebook rules state that organisations with a record of terrorist or violent criminal activity are not allowed to “maintain a presence” on the social network or post content in support of terrorist groups.

The company, which has declined to make an official statement, says it already works with law enforcement agencies and will disclose information either in good faith if it will prevent harm or upon court order.

Other US internet companies including Google, Twitter and Microsoft declined to comment.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141103eab3004xx


Business
Ryanair has farther to travel and it's not too late to climb on board
674 words
4 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
6
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Questor

Ryanair

€8.15 +0.56c

Questor says BUY

TWELVE months ago, Ryanair was caught in a media storm after two profit warnings sent its shares tumbling as low as €5.33 and the king of the budget airline industry was accused of having taken its eye off the ball.

Twelve months on, Ryanair seems to be back to its old game of underpromising and over–delivering as it yesterday upgraded its full–year profit guidance for the third time in the space of just four months.

Half–year profit after tax, which jumped 32pc to €795m (£621m), wasn't much of a surprise – analysts had been expecting a strong performance for the six months to September 30, which incorporates the key summer period – but the City was cheered by a significant increase in the airline's full–year guidance to €750m–€770m. If profits come in at the middle of that improved range, that would imply a 45pc increase on last year's result of €523m.

Shares have recovered over the past 12 months, closing up 7.7pc yesterday at €8.18. Given the improvement, it would be fair to argue that if you didn't catch a ride on Ryanair during its recovery, then you may have missed the plane.

However, Ryanair has also laid out ambitious growth targets to reach 150m passengers per annum by 2024, up from the expected 89m by the end of the current financial year.

The expansion is already under way, as the carrier embarks on a significant increase in capacity over the winter months – traffic will grow by 12pc in the third quarter and by 20pc in the fourth quarter. The firm started taking deliveries of its 180–plane fleet upgrade from Boeing last month, which it hopes will give a further boost to capacity and lower its running costs to boot.

Forward bookings for November, December, January, February and March are already up by 2pc, 7pc, 5pc, 5pc and 3pc respectively. Average fares will fall during that period but Ryanair expects fares to have edged ahead by 1pc for the full year. Crucially, costs are expected to be flat.

Ryanair's upbeat assessment helped to boost easyJet shares 2.6pc yesterday, and the enthusiasm for aviation spread as far as British Airways' parent company IAG, which rose 1.3pc. A further drop in the price of oil, which has slipped into a bear market in the past month, also served to improve the prospects for the carriers. Fuel represents about a third of an airline's cost base.

The sector has been flying under a cloud during the past few months. Uncertainty over the global economy and the threat that Ebola could dampen demand for international travel have kept some investors away from aviation stocks.

A court ruling last week that confirmed airlines should pay compensation when flights are delayed for technical problems is also hanging over the industry. Shares in easyJet, which has also lifted its profit guidance in 2014, are trading broadly flat on the price at the start of the year, compared with a 30.1pc increase for Ryanair's Dublin–listed stock.

Low–cost carriers still only occupy just over a third of the European aviation market. While Ryanair has the biggest market share of its budget peers, there is plenty of reason to believe that it can achieve its growth ambitions, particularly as its costs remain by far the lowest in the industry and many of its routes operate without a low–cost competitor.

In the event of a head–to–head battle with a rival, it will always win on price – as proven by its hard–headed decision to slash some ticket prices at the expense of its margins when demand showed signs of wobbling last year.

CEO Michael O'Leary's pledges on customer service improvements slowly appear to be gaining traction. Questor believes there is still growth to come. Buy.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141104eab40001n


TECH
Transformation of Godzilla
By Helena Kealey
628 words
3 November 2014
01:44 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
It's been 60 years since the original Japanese Godzilla film came out. How has it changed?

It is 60 years to the day since the release of the original Japanese Godzilla film: when the monstrous, fire-breathing, tyrannosaurus rex lookalike was first awoken by the bomb that went off in Hiroshima and took to the streets of Tokyo in search of something to eat.

Since 1954, 34 Godzilla films have been made, with the latest 2014 film arriving on DVD in a few weeks time.

Our modern day monster is quite a different creature from the first that roared onto screens in the 50s. How do the two films compare?

Creating the creature

Back in 1954, the first Godzilla was constructed from bamboo, cloth, paper and wire before being thrust onto the small frame of Harue Nakajima, the actor who portrayed the fictional monster. Attempting to move as little like a human as possible, Mr Nakajima shuffled like an elephant and in such a way as to prevent the bottom of Godzilla’s feet from being seen. He hoped this would “avoid looking vulnerable”.

Today however, our Godzilla’s are a far cry from being made from sweaty monster suits, and are instead mostly created using CGI. According to London-based Moving Picture Company, making a moving image of the monster from concept artwork took seven months, as the team built up his body from the underlying bones and muscle structure to the thickness and lava-like scales on his flesh.

Eizo Kaimai, the 85-year-old chairman of Kaimai Productions and one of the few surviving members from the team that created the first Godzilla film, has said he is pleased to have lived long enough to see the latest 2014 film, complete with digital effects: “They’re good. They did something extraordinary,” said Mr Kaimai.

The effect was unrecognisable from when in 1954 he had first created the monster: “Back then, when we first created monster movies, we didn’t even have plastic or urethane material available," he said.

The meaning behind the monster

Back in 1954, only nine years after the end of the Second World War, the monster behind Godzilla was a response to the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagaski, as well as the U.S hydrogen bomb test at Bikini Atoll in March 1954. This other-worldly monster – bringing devastation and confusion in its wake – was a scaly encapsulation of all these fears.

Gareth Edwards, director of the 2014 film, envisaged returning his “God” monster into a representation of a real fear: in which our formerly green earth, exhausted by ill-treatment at the hands of humans, starts wiping the slate clean. The monster brings with it earthquakes, rising tides and the threat of nuclear meltdown: all that’s missing from the catalogue of 21st Century fears is a sprinkling of Ebola outbreak.

The plot

In 1954, Godzilla was hungry and angry after his sleep in the deep and attacked Tokyo. In the 1965 American remake, Godzilla, King of the Monsters!, American Journalist, Steve Martin (played by Raymond Burr) leads an investigation into radioactive footprints that leads him straight to Godzilla and in 2014, secret Japanese cover-ups eventually fail to contain a conspicuously fat Godzilla (for the modern audience?) and “massive unidentified terrestrial organisms” (Mutos) that can kill electricity that run amuck among a plot stocked with absent fathers, dead wives and lots of crying.

A good script and a return to the themes behind the original Godzilla has seen this blockbuster drum up excellent criticism, unlike the unfortunate 1998 Godzilla in which the monster looks for a nice place to breed (thank you New York). The franchise is far from over yet.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141103eab3004yc


Wateraid in Tanzania: The babies who die for want of clean water
By Cherrill Hicks
4118 words
3 November 2014
07:47 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
At a clinic in rural Tanzania, we meet mothers who have lost infants to easily preventable illnesses caused by dirty water and lack of access to basic latrines

In a bare clinic room overlooking a stretch of parched red earth, Aisha Mkude is telling us about the loss of her fourth child, a boy, in January. The baby died within a week of the birth after contracting an umbilical cord infection, she says in her native Swahili. Aisha is convinced her baby’s fatal illness was caused by dirty water, dug from beneath a dried-up riverbed by relatives, and transported in jerrycans to the clinic’s delivery room for the birth. It was used to wash the baby, herself, her clothes and the bedsheets.

This is Mlali Health Centre, in Tanzania[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/tanzania/] ’s Morogoro region – a scenic sprawl of bush and palm trees lying at the foot of the country’s verdant southern Highlands. Chickens wander in, while outside, a woman attempts to sweep away the dust with a broom made of twigs. In the dry season it coats everything – cars, shoes, clothes, hair.

The circumstances in which Aisha gave birth here are unimaginable for most Westerners. Early one morning, she had travelled from her village to the clinic by motorbike taxi, stopping repeatedly on the unmade road because of the pain of labour. Arriving at the tiny delivery room, she was told by midwives that the clinic had no water: she would have to bring in her own supply for the birth.

For Aisha, 38, this wasn’t entirely unexpected. The same thing had happened at the births of her other children [three girls, aged eight, 13 and 16], when relatives fetched water from a nearby river. But last January, she recalls, things were even worse: the water situation was “very bad”. Two companions – a sister-in-law and a neighbour – had to dig down into the riverbed to get to water, using shovels and buckets.

The birth itself went smoothly but two days later, back home in the village, the baby developed a high fever; on day three, back at the clinic, he was found to be discharging foul smelling water from the umbilical cord. Antibiotics failed to save his young life.

Mlali serves a rural population of some 10,000 and houses not only a maternity ward but also antenatal, paediatric and vaccine clinics, a dentist, a laboratory (still under construction) and an adult ward. Yet incredibly, until last June, this simple, one storey building with mosquito screens but no glass at the windows, had no regular supply of water. When the water was piped through, usually once a week, staff stored it in buckets as best they could, but there was never enough.

Women who came here to have their babies, often travelling from distant villages, often in advanced labour, were told to bring in their own supply, usually from nearby rivers or village wells, or other unprotected sources. Each woman would need about 40-60 litres – two to three jerrycans - to wash themselves, their hands, their newborns, their clothing and their bedding.

Esther Mongi, a midwife at Mlali for 10 years, says she has often seen women in labour carrying buckets and jerrycans of water, sometimes for miles. In this area, most people are farmers, growing maize and other crops for subsistence or to sell in local markets. “Sometimes a woman goes into labour straight from the fields; she will need to wash but there will be no water in the clinic for a shower or bath.” If they have money, a woman’s relatives might buy water privately, from the trucks which regularly stop here but for many of the rural poor this is unaffordable.

Esther talks rapidly, eager to get her point across: without water, hands go unwashed, uniforms stay dirty, bed linen is short and the clinic goes weeks without being cleaned. Skin and eye diseases are easily transmitted and there are high rates of infection among both mothers and their newborns, who commonly get either sepsis[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/health/11047019/Sepsis-is-on-the-rise-warns-medical-expert.html] – a dangerous blood infection – or diarrhoea. She has seen many babies get sick and die immediately; though some last until they get home.

“We only used unsafe water because we didn’t have any alternative,” she says. “As professionals we should be here to protect the community. As a midwife you feel very bad, when this happens.”

Sanitation is another issue. Mlali only has one run down outside toilet, a pit latrine (where faeces are collected in a hole in the ground, rather than flushed away) used by both men, women and patients with diseases like malaria and various infections. The demand on it is such that some women in labour are forced to defecate in the open fields. “Sometimes the child can come right there, at the same time. It happens.”

Such conditions are widespread in Tanzania: a survey of delivery facilities here, published last month by researchers from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine[http://www.lshtm.ac.uk/], found that of only 44 per cent had access to safe water and adequate sanitation.

Oona Campbell, one of the authors, has been researching maternal health in low income countries for 25 years, but says even she was “flabbergasted” by the results. “The global strategy is to encourage women in low income countries to give birth in health facilities, to reduce the risk of complications” she says. But how can you have health facilities which don’t have water?”

Researchers such as Campbell are sharply critical of the global health community, arguing that while clean water and adequate sanitation is a crucial precondition for good health, this issue has been largely overlooked by those setting targets to improve maternal and newborn health.

“People have looked at the question of access to water in schools and homes – why it hasn’t been tackled in health facilities is a mystery,” says Campbell. “For health facilities to be provided with safe water and some form of sanitation is such a basic requirement.”

In this sparsely furnished room, Aisha is crying silently. The birth of a male child after three girls, had been a “joyful moment”, she says through the interpreter; and his death so unexpected. Her child is buried in the village but according to the custom here, he was too young to be named. “We wait 40 days before naming the child. He lived for seven days only.”

I feel bad intruding on Aisha’s grief. I ask the interpreter to tell her how sorry I am for the loss of her child and how grateful I am to her for travelling here and reliving her painful story; and how perhaps by doing so, by raising awareness, other babies will be saved. I doubt if this was of any comfort.

Tanzania may be renowned for its wildlife, superb national parks and idyllic beaches but this country, the largest in East Africa with a population of well over 40 million, is also one of the world’s poorest economies. Malnutrition is rife, HIV affects 5.5 per cent of the population and diseases such as malaria, typhoid, cholera and bilharzia (caused by parasitic worms) are common. Tragedies such as Aisha’s are not uncommon either, with some 21 in every 1,000 babies dying before they are a month old – 39,000 babies a year – mainly from infections such as sepsis and pneumonia, premature delivery and oxygen deprivation.

The numbers of women dying in pregnancy and childbirth are no less shocking: 390 in every 100,000, compared to just 8 women per 100,000 in the UK. Puerperal sepsis, or “childbed fever”, is one of the principal reasons: a devastating infection starting in the genital tract was rampant in Europe until about 150 years ago. Among those credited with making the link between this lethal disease and poor hygiene are Alexander Gordon, an Aberdeen based doctor in the late 18th century, and a 19th-century Hungarian, Dr Ignaz Semmelweis who both argued that handwashing by doctors could drastically reduce rates of maternal mortality. Their theories offended many doctors at the time and took some years to gain acceptance.

Many factors contribute to Tanzania’s high death rates among mothers and newborns, including acute shortages of medicines, equipment and trained health professionals; but a fundamental issue affecting people’s health is water scarcity. With a long hot dry season (from October to April), the problem is nothing new, but it has been exacerbated by climate change, which is causing more droughts, as well as flooding; and by the demands of the country’s increasing population.

The result is that almost half the population have no access to a safe water supply, according to the charity WaterAid. Typically, women and children – whose job it is – spend over two hours a day collecting water and up to seven hours in some remote areas.

“In 2000 you could drill for 50 m and find water; now you have to drill for 70m making boreholes more expensive, because the water table has gone down,” says Francis Mtitu, senior programme co ordinator for WaterAid Tanzania. “Even in rivers the water levels are going down.

“Even if clean water is available it may be far away or too expensive or not available all the time. In middle income families in the city the tap may run for only a couple of hours a week, which means you have to store it and it is likely to become contaminated.”

Tanzanians get their water from a variety of sources – in the towns, piped from (infrequent) municipal supplies and in the countryside, from boreholes, village wells, rivers and ponds. But many sources of both ground and surface water are likely to be contaminated by toxic drainage systems, human waste, industrial chemicals and various pathogens.

A poor quality infrastructure is at least partly to blame. In Dar Es Salaam[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/tanzania/], the country’s commercial capital, the main source of water is from a river 100m away; although chlorinated, the ancient pipes which transport the water from the river means contamination is still a risk. “And people without water may also divert the water supply illegally by connecting to the main pipes, another cause of contamination,” says Mtitu.

Urban professionals (and foreign tourists) can buy bottled water, or treat water with chlorine tablets, to make it drinkable. But in rural areas, even the fuel needed for boiling water may not be affordable or available.

Yael Velleman, senior policy analyst with the charity in London explains: “Without access to water people do they what have to. They get unsafe water from unprotected wells or from rivers and ponds which may be filthy, shared with animals or containing industrial contaminants.

“If there is no safe water you can’t wash your hands properly after the toilet, or to prepare food, so infections such as diarrhoea and pneumonia are easily transmitted.”

Alongside the water problem is one of sanitation, with only one quarter of the population having access to toilets which properly isolate wastewater and protect the environment from contamination. If people are using open pit latrines, or even defecating in open fields, or if septic tanks aren’t maintained properly, or if toilets don’t function properly, the wastewater contaminates ground water resources – used for village wells and boreholes.

According to guidelines from WHO[http://www.who.int.proxy.bc.edu/en/], “improved” latrines have to be protected from flies (which spread disease), have washable slabs and also provide privacy and convenience. “If a latrine is far away from your house, you’re not going to go and use it at midnight, when you might get bitten by a snake,” says Mtitu. Accessible, safe latrines are especially vital in providing women and girls with privacy, dignity and safety: “If they have to go in the open, they will often do so after dark, when they are more at risk of sexual attack,” adds Velleman.

Poor water and sanitation are estimated by WHO to be the main cause of about quarter of all child deaths worldwide, with diarrhoea the second biggest killer of children under five.

Zema Christian’s third baby, born last December, was fortunate to survive the umbilical cord infection she contracted after being washed with untreated river water, carried to Mlali clinic by her family. But seven months later, the little girl succumbed to diarrhoea and a high fever.

Somehow the family got the child back to the clinic, where nurses paid the fare for Zema to take a public bus to the local regional hospital. But by this time the baby was severely dehydrated and having convulsions. She died on the third day in hospital.

Zema, 28, had been breastfeeding, but the baby had also been given water from the village well: the other two other children were drinking it, she explains, and the baby wanted some, just like them. She had never thought it could be dangerous: the family all used to drink the salty, chalky water from the well, although she adds, they are always getting diarrhoea.

Zema speaks in a low voice, wiping her eyes, covering her face with her red and cream headscarf as if ashamed. The child, was called Nisha Hamis. Does she think anything could have been done to prevent her baby dying? A supply of safe water at home, she replies.

She has travelled to Mlali clinic for our interview but wants to know when she can go home; the family make their living from farming maize and she has to help with the harvest. She is asked to wait, to take part in a filmed interview. But she is far too distraught to tell her story again.

Aside from water scarcity, the other big issue, says Dr Ibrahim Kabole, from WaterAid Tanzania, is one of infrastructure. At the governmental level, water and health are in separate “silos” – dealt with by different departments, with little connection between them. This means for example, that millions are spent treating waterborne diseases such as typhoid and cholera, which might well be prevented with a clean water supply.

“A hospital may have a high tech system for sterilising equipment – but if staff and patients aren’t able to wash their hands with soap and water, that is pointless,” he says. “If a mother goes into labour can she wash her hands with soap and water? Is there a toilet she can use? Is the bed clean enough, have the sheets been washed? It’s not rocket science.

“If a child is born in an environment where there’s lack of water and sanitation the chances are that this child will get an infection through the umbilicus. Umbilical sepsis is one of the major contributors of neonatal death.

“And we know that getting an infection giving birth is a key contributor to the number of maternal deaths that take place.”

There is another indirect yet equally tragic effect of dirty water, he says: the chronic diarrhoea it causes results in long term growth failure, called stunting. In women, stunting leads to cephalo-pubic disproportion – meaning the pelvis is too narrow for delivery; this in turn results in high rates of obstructed labour, and oxygen deprivation in babies.

Kabole is passionate about making the link between medicine and the basic measures needed to improve water and sanitation, to help people have access to better health and better lives. Improved water and sanitation in health centres he says will not only reduce rates of infection but also encourage mothers to give birth there, reducing the risk of common complications such as post-partum haemorrhage.

“Losing 500 mothers a year is not acceptable,” he says. Let’s begin where life begins. Let’s ensure a steady supply of water to support the places where mothers are giving birth.”

The good news is that Mlali Health Centre now has a brand new water tank. Built by the Canadian branch of WaterAid, together with local NGOs, it could alter the lives of women and girls in this region. It’s been designed to harvest rainwater during the rainy season, flowing in from new gutters on the clinic roof. A smaller “first flush” tank filters water from the gutters first to eliminate insects and particles, making the water, if not drinkable, at least safe for other purposes. It holds 30,000 litres of water, which should last the clinic a month.

Pipes have also been laid to it from a communal tank some distance away, which means the clinic also has access to water in the dry season, a resource which it shares with two nearby villages. Outside the clinic, in the middle of the red earth, encased in concrete, is a new standpipe, and more are being added outside the maternity ward.

Workmen are still busy on eight new toilets to the back of the clinic; they are still basic squat types, without a flush, but built to ensure wastewater is safely separated from the environment and with five designated for women only, as well as disabled-access.

It is too early to measure the impact of the new water supply; but Dr Beatrice Temba, head of the centre, says deliveries have already risen from about 5-7 a week to about 15-20, as more women hear about the improved facilities. And already, even after a month, she is seeing neonatal infection rates dropping.

On the yellowing walls of Dr Temba’s office is a chart of the top-ten diseases in under-5s in Tanzania (diarrhoea, malaria, HIV, pneumonia), and there is a bucket in the sink to make sure no water gets wasted. As a muezzin calls the faithful to prayer, she speaks of the risks of cross infection – from staff to mothers, from mothers to their babies, from mothers to other mothers – where there is no safe water or sanitation.

“As a doctor, as a woman, it was difficult working in such a terrible environment,” she says quietly.

But providing a safe supply of water is not just a question of donating and building a tank. “You have to ensure that there is an infrastructure for it to be maintained,” Dr Kabole had told me back in Dar, earlier in the trip. “This isn’t just about providing water for the poor. There has to be a mutual commitment – to continue it.”

His words come into my mind the second day of my visit to Mlali. On the first, we had assumed that the tank was full and in use; we had marvelled at the way it was apparently, already changing lives. But the second day, out of curiosity, I try a tap, in the doctor’s office. Surprisingly, nothing comes out. Slowly it emerges, with the help of interpreters, that the tank is empty.

It is the dry season, so no water is being harvested. Still, there should be water piped from the communal tank which is shared with nearby villages.

Once the news is out a hasty investigation ensues. The regional health officer, Carle Lyimo, arrives, together with various officials from the villages. We learn that there has been no water since the previous Friday – and it is now Thursday.

Why has no one told us? Were they anxious to impress the western visitors and agencies, worried about what we might think? Mr Lyimo promises there will be water by the next day.

So it is not just donors and money that is needed but good management – and also maintenance. Without someone responsible for maintenance and without a budget, gutters break and stay broken, pipes become permanently blocked.

But Mr Lyimo is true to his word: by our arrival early the following morning, the water is reconnected, men are busy working on the pipes and the tank is now a quarter full. There is enough water for both the villages and the clinic, he says: it is just a question of good management, so that it is properly shared. Word is that the water had been diverted unofficially, maybe illegally.

So – there are problems to be ironed out. It is still a mystery where the water went and why and who has the power to divert it, to deprive the clinic of water.

There is one happy ending. Mary Musa’s third child, wrapped in a pink blanket and knitted orange hat, is just two weeks old, having been born here in early July; she has returned to the clinic today for a check up. Her husband is a tailor and they live on the slopes of the Uluguru mountains.

Despite some problems with the pregnancy – she was overdue by a month – all went well with the delivery she says, smiling: Ely – chosen because it is “God’s name” – was a big baby weighing 4.5 kg. He came at 8 in the morning after a five-hour labour. She had walked to the clinic, refusing a motorcycle, stopping many times because of the pain, arriving at dawn.

Unlike the times when her other babies were born, Mary wasn’t asked to bring water to the clinic on this occasion: there was plenty available for her and the baby and the clinic was clean.

“There was plenty of water and I felt very comfortable to give birth at the clinic,” she says. “People are very grateful – it used to be so hard having to come with water."

Will she come here to have her next baby? “That’s the last one,” she says, smiling. Where does the family get its water at home? They depend on a neighbour with a piped supply, she says although the water only comes once a week. Otherwise they buy water, but at 500Tsh (about 50p) per jerrycan of 20 litres, it is expensive.

I am back in Dar es Salaam, in my BestWestern hotel, cocooned in fumigated, air-conditioned rooms, surrounded by grounds treated with insecticide and not a mosquito in sight. I relax with a beer overlooking the Indian Ocean, the palm trees silhouetted against the darkening sky, the sun sinking slowly below the horizon. The poverty, the heartbreaking stories, the babies washed in dirty water, seem a million miles away.

I have heard it said that in sub-Saharan Africa, life is cheap – that, just like Europeans 100 years ago, the rural poor are resigned to disease and death because it happens so often. That there is a fatalism when a child dies because there are so many other mouths to feed. But the women I have spoken to who had lost babies were as grief-stricken as any mother might be. They had travelled for miles to tell me their stories and invited us into their homes. They did not consider their loss God’s will; they realised clean water was crucial to their family’s survival.

“I feel so bad because I did not expect he would die,” Aisha Mkude had told me. “The death could have been prevented by safe water being available.”

On my last day in Tanzania, I am up at 6.30 for an interview at the Ministry of Health, but we are late, held up in Dar’s notorious traffic. This is the fate of those who have made it, who have escaped from rural poverty: suits, ties, air-con and waiting in traffic. We drive along this beautiful coast dotted with palms and a fantastic light, with a sea high and windy today.

We are seeing Dr Elias Chinamo, assistant director at the Ministry. He talks of the problems of water and sanitation, of the challenges posed by climate change, with heavy rains and flooding putting the water supply at risk of contamination.

But we don’t get very far – the interview is cut short by a knock at the door, He has been called to the airport, where two travellers from West Africa have suspected symptoms of ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] . The country already has monitoring in place at its airports, although there is no direct flight from West Africa to Dar – you have to come via Nairobi, or France. A hurried goodbye and he is gone.

Afterwards,I visit the ministry toilet, the usual squat with spray attached, to be used for rinsing off excreta. Astonishingly, in the Ministry of Health, when I go to wash my hands, no water comes out of the taps. But the design of these taps is unfamiliar, to say the least – and it is just possible that I don’t know how to use them.

WaterAid’s winter appeal Child of MIne[http://www.wateraid.org/uk/what-we-do/the-crisis/child-of-mine] aims to improve children’s health with safe water and basic toilets. For information, visit wateraid.org[http://www.wateraid.org/uk/what-we-do/the-crisis/child-of-mine]

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141103eab3001h2


NEWS
Ebola threat to Americans is 'hyped' by desperate media, says David Axelrod
By Christopher Hope Senior Political Correspondent
372 words
3 November 2014
07:47 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
'The media and craven politicians are hyping the threat to keep interest' in Ebola, says David Axelrod, who was hired to advise Ed Miliband in April

The threat to Americans from Ebola is being “hyped” by television networks desperate for ratings, according to Ed Miliband’s US adviser David Axelrod.

Mr Axelrod said that Americans were "unreasonably" nervous about the disease which as killed thousands of people in west Africa.

The news came as it emerged that a woman has been admitted[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11204904/Woman-tested-for-Ebola-at-south-London-hospital.html] to a London hospital is to be tested for ebola.

Mr Axelrod was hired by the Labour leader in April on a reported six figure sum to advise the party in the months leading up to the general election.

In a lecture[http://www.rowlandhall.org/page.cfm?p=2695] in America on the future of journalism at the weekend, Mr Axelrod said it was wrong for media outlets to suggest Ebola was a crisis in America.

He said: “Ebola is not a crisis in America. It is a crisis in West Africa, but the media and craven politicians are hyping the threat to keep interest.

“I watched a recent television newscast that had seven straight minutes about the latest developments about Ebola followed by a story about how Americans were unreasonably nervous about Ebola. Well, of course they are.”

According to UtahPolicy.com[http://utahpolicy.com/index.php/features/today-at-utah-policy/3916-david-axelrod-on-media-and-politics], Mr Axelrod said that the reporting of the threat from Ebola showed how the traditional media was trying to keep the public inflamed about issues.

Mr Axelrod made the comments when he gave the Fall 2014 McCarthey Family Foundation in Salt Lake City. Last year’s speaker was Madeleine Albright, the former US secretary of state.

Mr Axelrod has served as senior advisor to President Barack Obama and was a senior strategist to Barack Obama’s 2008 and 2012 Presidential election campaigns.

In May, a month after he was hired by Labour, he was criticised for mis-spelling Mr Miliband’s name in a Twitter message. He wrote: “Enjoyed my visit with @Ed_ Milliband and his @UKLabour team. I was inspired by the brilliant, tireless young women and men I met at HQ!”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141103eab30035z


NEWS
Woman tested for Ebola at south London hospital does not have disease
By Agency
386 words
3 November 2014
07:24 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Health officials confirm tests for Ebola on a woman who presented herself at St George's Hospital in Tooting, south London, have proved negative

A woman tested for Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/article11204909.ece?token=-692809728] at a London hospital does not have the disease, health officials have said.

The patient has a history of travel to West Africa and was admitted after suffering a "haemorrhagic fever".

She presented herself to St George's Hospital in Tooting, south London, on Sunday night with a high temperature and was put in isolation from other patients.

Health officials have now confirmed tests for Ebola have proved negative.

A spokesman for St George's Healthcare NHS Trust said: "A patient has been admitted to St George's Hospital this evening with a haemorrhagic fever and is currently undergoing a series of tests, as a precaution one of which is for Ebola.

"The trust has followed national guidance and moved the patient to our clinical infections unit where they are being cared for in isolation, away from other patients. Infection control procedures remain in place while we await the outcome of the tests.

"We are confident that all appropriate actions have been taken by our staff to protect the public and the patient."

A Public Health England spokesman said: "It is important to remember that as yet, there has not been a case of Ebola diagnosed in the UK and the infection can only be transmitted through contact with the bodily fluids - such as blood, vomit or faeces - of an infected person.

"We have advised all front line medical practitioners and NHS call handlers to be alert to signs and symptoms of Ebola in those returning from affected areas and following such advice we would expect to see an increase in testing."

He said PHE would not confirm how many people have been tested for the virus in the UK since the outbreak in West Africa.

William Pooley became the first confirmed Briton to contract Ebola and was flown back to the UK in August, where he was treated at the Royal Free Hospital in London.

The 29-year-old has returned to Sierra Leone where he caught the infection to begin his second spell treating people infected by the deadly virus.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141103eab3002pa


FINANCE
British business confidence weighed down by global growth panic
By Mehreen Khan
444 words
2 November 2014
08:10 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Political crises and concerns about another global downturn are hurting growth expectations in the private sector

The storm clouds gathering in the world economy are weighing down on British companies, according to a global survey of business confidence.

Just under a third of UK firms, 31pc, said they were more upbeat about the prospect of expanding their business in the three months to September, down from 37pc in the previous quarter, according to the Global Economic Conditions survey by accountancy firm ACCA.

This is the third consecutive time the gauge has fallen since the UK economy began to show signs of recovery in 2013.

"It is clear that the global recovery is becoming increasingly unbalanced, as free-flowing liquidity and market buoyancy have helped prop up confidence in many parts of the financial sector while doing very little for the real economy", said the report.

The gradual tapering of government interventions, such as the Funding for Lending scheme for small businesses, and the Help to Buy programme, have also contributed to dampening confidence in the private sector, said the report.

Although the global economy is no longer in a crisis period, optimism about a sustained recovery, especially in the developed world, has begun to fade, according to Emmanouil Schizas, a senior economic analyst at ACCA.

Concerns about a fall into deflation, coupled with a lack of investment have depressed the outlook for the UK's firms.

Six countries in the eurozone have aready slipped into outright deflation, forcing the European Central Bank to engage in a form of quantitative easing "lite" to help stimulate prices.

"In the past 18 months, we saw that price stability was feeding into business confidence as a positive", said Mr Schizas. "But stable prices are now being seen as a negative thing and an indicator of deflation."

The survey also highlighted the crisis in Ukraine, the spread of Ebola, and the rise of Islamic State, as threats which could challenge how the global economy "would react to a truly destabilising event."

The report did cite an improvement in UK's businesses access to financing, particularly for small and medium sized companies but warned the opportunities for this investment remained limited.

"There is a lot of pent-up investment that is being released in the smaller end of the business world. But in terms of opportunities to make money, we've seen less of that over the last two quarters," added Mr Schizas.

"In summary, the global economy is entering a very dangerous period of uncertainty which could easily result in a renewed downturn," concluded the report.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141102eab20002u


News
Obama's crisis is of his own making
PETER FOSTER
691 words
2 November 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
1; National
29
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
As the mid-terms loom,it's clear that the president's domestic successes are meagre compared with his foreign policy failures

AMERICA'S MIDTERM elections take place on Tuesday and even though Barack Obama is not personally on the ballot, they will provide a natural moment for the voters to mark his presidency's halfterm report card. And for lots of valid reasons - an economic recovery that hasn't trickled down, continued Middle East chaos, Ebola panic at home and the botched roll-out of his signature health care reforms - the American public is going to give Mr Obama a B-doubleminus.

Whichever way the White House looks at the polls, the news is not good. It now looks very likely that Republicans will take back control of the Senate, further enfeebling an already troubled presidency, while Mr Obama's own approval ratings are stuck permanently at periscopedepth.

The president's remaining supporters will contend that much of this slough of despond is not of Mr Obama's making, and that he is unfairly taking the blame for events and circumstances he cannot be expected to control.

There is an element of truth to this determinist view: American presidents often take more credit than they deserve when things go well, and correspondingly accept unfair amounts of blame when they go badly.

After all, it's hardly Mr Obama's fault that global economic forces mean that GDP growth - up 8 per cent during his tenure - has translated into soaring corporate profits but not healthier household incomes for the ordinary Joe.

On the plus side, it should be noted that Mr Obama has announced some serious environmental reforms in his second term that make it impossible to burn coal in the US without carbon capture. That may not have made headlines, but lays a legacy that will grow over time.

It is also true that while the initial roll-out of the Obamacare health reforms was inept, the exchange websites are now working and Obamacare has hardly even been an issue on the campaign trail this autumn.

But despite these admittedly modest achievements, Mr Obama's numbers are still horrible. If Democrats fare as badly as the polls suggest, it will be because these voting blocs could not be bothered to turn out and vote.

What happened? Mr Obama's supporters will try to blame unforeseen events, second-terms blues and Republican intransigence, but the truth is that a large part of the Obama confidence-crisis is of his own making.

It stems first from several terrible foreign policy decisions - or non-decisions. The foundations for failure were laid in the first term, when Mr Obama apparently eschewed the need for American leadership in the world, but the cracks only began to appear in the second term.

They began with the failure to enforce the "red line" over chemical weapons use in Syria, followed a year later by the fateful underestimation of the strength of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) movement.

For a surprisingly long time the polls suggested that a warweary nation was giving Mr Obama a free-pass on these failings. But that piece of cover was stripped away the instant that American journalist James Foley was beheaded in front of Isil's cameras.

What has shocked even more, from a political perspective, is Mr Obama's response: the goofing around on golf carts, the bungled press conference where he confessed there was "no strategy" on Syria, the diffident interviews and then the panicked and stroppy handling of the Ebola outbreak.

All this explains Mr Obama's low-standing, but what it does not explain is why this president has been so abject at the theatrical requirements of an office which, it now appears, he won largely on the basis of theatrics.

For historians to come, this will be the great imponderable of the Obama years: how was it that a leader with such obvious theatrical talents proved unable, or unwilling - it is not clear - to summon them when he needed them the most.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141102eab200066


News
Britain to boost aid for Ebola
COLIN FREEMAN
171 words
2 November 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
1; National
29
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
BRITAIN HAS pledged £20million to build three Ebola testing laboratories in Sierra Leone, a move that will save lives by reducing the time required to tell whether a patient has the virus.

At present, the number of cases is overwhelming the ability of testing labs, with a wait of up to five days or more for results. The new labs are expected to reduce that time to a 24-hour turnaround, meaning patients who later get the all-clear do not have to spend several days waiting in treatment centres where they might be at risk of infection.

According to the latest World Health Organisation figures, Sierra Leone has so far seen 1,510 deaths from Ebola, and another 3,378 con-firmed cases. Across West Africa, nearly 5,000 people have now died from the virus.

Britain has so far pledged £225million to the Ebola fight in Sierra Leone, including funding for treatment beds, personnel, burial teams and community care centres.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141102eab20005z


NEWS
How bad can Ebola epidemic get?
By Agencies
1064 words
2 November 2014
12:41 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Scientists try to predict number of US Ebola cases, but what is the worst-case scenario?

Top medical experts studying the spread of Ebola say Americans should expect more cases to emerge in the United States by year's end as infected people arrive here from West Africa.

But how many cases?

No one knows for sure how many infections will emerge in the U.S. or anywhere else, but scientists have made educated guesses based on data models that weigh hundreds of variables, including daily new infections in West Africa, airline traffic worldwide and transmission possibilities.

This week, several top infectious disease experts ran simulations for The Associated Press that predicted as few as one or two additional infections by the end of 2014 to a worst-case scenario of 130.

"I don't think there's going to be a huge outbreak here, no," said Dr. David Relman, a professor of infectious disease, microbiology and immunology at Stanford University's medical school. "However, as best we can tell right now, it is quite possible that every major city will see at least a handful of cases."

Relman is a founding member of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services advisory board for biosecurity and chairs the National Academy of Sciences forum on microbial threats.

Until now, projections published in top medical journals by the World Health Organisation and the US Centers for Disease Control have focused on worst-case scenarios for West Africa, concluding that cases in the US will be episodic, but minimal. But they have declined to specify actual numbers.

The projections are complicated, but Ebola has been a fairly predictable virus - extremely infectious, contagious only through contact with body fluids, requiring no more than 21 days for symptoms to emerge. Human behavior is far less predictable - people get on airplanes, shake hands, misdiagnose, even lie.

Pandemic risk expert Dominic Smith, a senior manager for life risks at Newark, California-based RMS, a leading catastrophe-modeling firm, ran a U.S. simulation this week that projected 15 to 130 cases between now and the end of December. That's less than one case per 2 million people.

Smith's method assumes that most cases imported to the U.S. will be American medical professionals who worked in West Africa and returned home.

Smith said the high end may be a bit of an overestimate as it does not include the automatic quarantining measures that some areas in the U.S. are implementing.

Those quarantines "could both reduce the number of contacts for imported cases, as well as increase the travel burden on - and perhaps reduce the number of - U.S. volunteers planning to support the effort in West Africa," he said.

In a second simulation, Northeastern University professor Alessandro Vespignani projected between one case - the most likely scenario - and a slim chance of as many as eight cases though the end of November.

"I'm always trying to tell people to keep calm and keep thinking rationally," said Vespignani, who projects the spread of infectious diseases at the university's Laboratory for the Modeling of Biological and Socio-Technical Systems.

In an article in the journal PLOS ONE, Vespignani and a team of colleagues said the probability of international spread outside the African region is small, but not negligible. Longer term, they say international dissemination will depend on what happens in West Africa in the next few months.

Their first analysis, published Sept. 2, proved to be accurate when it included the U.S. among 30 countries likely to see some Ebola cases. They projected one or two infections in the U.S., but there could be as many as 10.

So far, nine Ebola patients have been treated in the U.S., and one has died. Seven became infected in West Africa, including Thomas Eric Duncan, the first to arrive undiagnosed and the first to die. He was cared for at a Dallas hospital, where two of his nurses were also infected.

Duncan, who was initially misdiagnosed and sent home from the emergency room, is Vespignani's worst-case scenario for the U.S.

A similar situation, if left unchecked, could lead to a local cluster that could infect, on the outside, as many as 20, he said.

The foreseeable future extends only for the next few months. After that, projections depend entirely on what happens in West Africa. One scenario is that the surge in assistance to the region brings the epidemic under control and cases peter out in the U.S. A second scenario involves Ebola spreading unchecked across international borders.

"My worry is that the epidemic might spill into other countries in Africa or the Middle East, and then India or China. That could be a totally different story for everybody," Vespignani said.

Dr. Ashish Jha, a Harvard University professor and director of the Harvard Global Health Institute, said he's not worried about a handful of new cases in the U.S. His greatest worry is if the disease goes from West Africa to India.

"If the infection starts spreading in Delhi or Mumbai, what are we going to do?"

Dr. Peter Hotez, founding dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine and director of the Texas Children's Hospital Center for Vaccine Development, pegs the range of cases in the U.S. between five and 100.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention prefers not to focus on a particular number. But spokeswoman Barbara Reynolds said Ebola will not be a widespread threat as some outside the agency have warned.

"We're talking about clusters in some places but not outbreaks," she said.

The CDC is using modeling tools to work on projections in West Africa, but "there isn't enough data available in the U.S. to make it worthwhile to go through the exercise."

University of Texas integrative biology professor Lauren Ancel Meyers said there are inherent inconsistencies in forecasting "because the course of action we're taking today will impact what happens in the future."

Her laboratory is running projections of Ebola's spread in West Africa.

The U.S. simulations run for the AP had fairly consistent results with each other, she said. And they are "consistent with what we know about the disease."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141102eab2000jh


NEWS
UN Ebola victim being treated in French hospital
By Agencies
191 words
1 November 2014
10:58 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
United Nations employee suffering from Ebola has been evacuated from Sierra Leone to France for treatment

France is treating a United Nations employee who contracted Ebola in Sierra Leone, the health ministry said on Sunday.

"This person, who worked in Sierra Leone in the fight against Ebola, has undergone a secure medical evacuation by specialised aircraft," the ministry said in a statement.

The victim has been placed in isolation under high security in an army training hospital in Saint-Mande near Paris.

A French nurse, who worked for Doctors Without Borders (MSF) in Liberia, was treated for Ebola at the same hospital in September and recovered.

Despite around 500 reports of possible Ebola infections in France since June, not one has so far tested positive, the ministry added.

France has 12 research hospitals ready to take in suspected Ebola cases.

The Ebola epidemic had killed at least 4,922 people out of 13,703 cases up to October 27, almost all in the west African countries of Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, according to the latest World Health Organisation figures.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141102eab2000gp


Features; Opinion, Column
Don't shun me at the school gates just because I've been to Ebola–land
COLIN FREEMAN
897 words
1 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
22
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
New Jersey is treating returning aid workers like lepers – but I am safe to walk the streets

Small talk with other parents outside my four–year–old's school isn't usually difficult. There's the question of how our little youngsters are getting on with their new teacher, and how we parents are juggling the school routine with work. A couple of times recently, though, I've been a bit vague on that latter topic. After all, telling fellow mums and dads that you have just come back from Ebola–hit Liberia is not that easy to drop into casual schoolrun chat. As a conversation–killer, it's up there with saying that rather than trick–or–treating, my daughter and I will be opting for a spot of Satanism.

Before a team of boiler–suited medics beat their path to my house, let me offer a few words of reassurance. I've been to Liberia twice in the last few months, both times reporting on the Ebola outbreak, and yes, it does involve a certain risk. But like other important stories, such as Syria and Iraq, my editor thinks that it's worth taking those risks to keep the public informed. Without the first–hand reports showing people dying outside treatment centres, the response to the crisis might not have been as big as it is now.

The difference is, of course, that with Ebola, those risks follow you home in a way that bullets, bombs and kidnappers never do. Had I become infected while out there, I could potentially have brought the virus back, and then possibly passed it on to my family and other people.

Luckily, it doesn't quite work that way. While Ebola does have a three–week incubation period, carriers of the virus are only a danger to others once the symptoms start, and even then, the infectiousness is limited in the early stages. The advice from Public Health England, with whom I am obliged to register, is that until that happens, one is fine to continue life as normal – going to work, dropping children off at school, seeing friends, and so on.

Still, it's one thing to sound reassuring in print. It's quite another to reassure parents in a playground, many of whom may still take the view that it is better to be safe than sorry.

But there is a price to be paid for erring on the side of caution – as is demonstrated by the case this week of Kaci Hickox, an American volunteer with Medicins Sans Frontières, who has threatened to sue US officials in New Jersey after they tried to have her compulsorily quarantined when she came back from treating Ebola patients in Sierra Leone. On Thursday, she openly defied them, going for a bike ride in front of the assembled media (some of them following so closely that it was clear they didn't consider her an infection risk).

Ms Hickox's stance has thrown America's rulers into disarray. Siding with her are the White House and disease control experts, who point out that not only is forced quarantine unnecessary, but the stigma and inconvenience also risk deterring aid workers from helping in West Africa. Bitterly critical of her are the likes of New Jersey governor Chris Christie, who says that Ebola is too dangerous a threat to count on a "voluntary" system of quarantine. The public, meanwhile, are divided, partly according to whether they see aid workers as selfless heroes who need protection, or as Leftie do–gooders.

As a journalist for this newspaper, I don't really fall into either category. But I can't help sympathising with Ms Hickox. The first three weeks after coming back from Ebola–land are stressful enough as they are – if one gets a headache, severe cold or attack of the runs, there is always that sneaking worry that it might be something worse. The last thing one needs on top of that is to be treated like some sort of leper – which does happen anyway, albeit most often due to ignorance about the real risks of contagion.

One British public health expert who was out in Sierra Leone recently made a point of saying during a BBC radio interview that he had gone straight back to work the day after returning home. That, however, did not stop the BBC from deciding that it wasn't safe to send a crew to interview him face to face. If they'd said that to a person with HIV, there would have been an outcry.

Fortunately, Britain has so far steered clear of the kind of compulsory quarantines favoured by New Jersey, although that's partly because we have so far been spared the kind of Ebola scares that might lead to calls for such measures. Should one happen, though – and I suspect it will – I can only hope that an over–the–top 'elf and safety culture doesn't prevail. We rightly protest when that attitude stops villages holding fetes or children throwing snowballs. We should also protest if it gets in the way of aid workers going out to save lives.

Comment on Colin Freeman's view at telegraph.co.uk/personalview

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141101eab10006w


NEWS
New York doctor recovers from Ebola
By Agencies
646 words
1 November 2014
07:19 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Dr Craig Spence now stable as Dallas nurse is finally reunited with quarantined dog

A New York doctor with Ebola, whose case triggered a national debate over mandatory quarantines for health workers returning from West Africa, was upgraded to stable condition on Saturday after nine days of treatment.

Dr. Craig Spencer, 33, the only person in the United States currently being treated for Ebola, will remain in isolation, New York City's Bellevue Hospital said in a statement. He has improved to "stable" from "serious but stable."

Spencer was diagnosed with Ebola several days after returning to New York from Guinea where he had worked with patients infected with the disease, which is known to have killed almost 5,000 people in West Africa.

His Oct. 23 diagnosis, following a trip on the New York subway to eat out and go bowling with friends, spread alarm about the possible spread of the virus in the United States, leading states and federal health officials to issue a host of differing protocols for those considered at risk of developing the infection.

On a brighter note, Texas nurse Nina Pham, 26, who recovered from Ebola last week after treating a Liberian patient in a Dallas hospital, was reunited on Saturday with her dog, which had been quarantined for three weeks as a precaution.

The fate of her King Charles Spaniel, called Bentley, became a focus of public interest after officials in Madrid put down the dog of a Spanish nurse who had contracted Ebola while caring for a patient.

"After I was diagnosed with Ebola, I didn't know what would happen to Bentley and if he would have the virus," Pham told reporters at a Dallas animal shelter. "I was frightened that I might not know what happened to my best friend."

In the biggest tussle so far, a Maine judge on Friday rejected a state request to quarantine nurse Kaci Hickox, who recently returned home from treating Ebola patients in Sierra Leone.

Hickox, who has tested negative for Ebola, fought a heated public battle over what she considered draconian measures to isolate her for 21 days in a case that highlighted the dilemma over how to balance public health needs and personal liberty.

Medical professionals say Ebola is difficult to catch and is spread through direct contact with bodily fluids from an infected person and is not transmitted by asymptomatic people.

Canada and Australia have barred entry for citizens from Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, where the disease is widespread, and some U.S. politicians have called for a similar ban by the United States.

In Oregon, test results were awaited for a woman with a fever who was hospitalized in an isolation unit on Friday after returning from West Africa, Oregon health officials said. She had not come into known contact with Ebola patients while in Africa, the officials added.

U.S. public health experts, the United Nations, federal officials and President Barack Obama have expressed concern that state quarantines for returning doctors and nurses could discourage potential medical volunteers from fighting the outbreak at its source in West Africa.

Obama spoke by phone on Saturday with U.S. service members in Liberia and Senegal taking part in the American military mission to contain the outbreak in West Africa, the White House said in a statement.

In the call, Obama underscored that the U.S. government strategy to tackle Ebola in West Africa is the most effective way to prevent further spread of the disease and protect the American people from it, the statement said.

On Friday the Pentagon said that civilian U.S. defense employees returning from Ebola relief work in West Africa must undergo monitoring to ensure they are free of disease but can choose between following civil health guidelines or the stricter military regimen.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141101eab1006he


NEWS
UK to build three new Ebola labs in Sierra Leone
By Colin Freeman
622 words
1 November 2014
11:49 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Testing laboratories that could help the west African country stem the deadliest outbreak of the disease in history are to be built with £20m UK funding

Britain has pledged £20 million to build three new Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] testing laboratories in Sierra Leone, a move that will save lives by slashing the time required to tell whether a patient has the virus.

At present, the sheer number of cases is overwhelming the ability of testing labs to cope, with a wait of up to five days or more for results to come back. The building of the new labs is expected to reduce that time to a 24-hour turn around, meaning that patients who later get the all-clear do not have to spend several days waiting in treatment centres where they might be at risk of infection.

According to the latest World Health Organisation figures, Sierra Leone has so far seen some 1,510 deaths from Ebola, and another 3,378 confirmed cases. Across west Africa, nearly 5,000 people have now died from the virus.

Dr Chris Whitty, the chief scientist for the Department for International Development, which is funding the labs, told The Sunday Telegraph: “One of the problems in Sierra Leone right now is that there are just not enough testing facilities. At the moment, we have people hanging around in large numbers in treatment centres, and the quicker we can get people tested, the quicker the ones that turn out to be negative can be moved on their way, and the less their chances they will have of being infected.”

The labs will also allow quicker testing on the bodies of those who have died before reaching treatment centres. At present, many are simply buried before testing is carried out - meaning their families have no way of knowing whether they too are at risk from the virus.

Britain has far pledged some £225 million to the fight against Ebola in Sierra Leone, a former colony. That includes support for 700 Ebola treatment beds which will provide direct medical care up to 8,800 patients over six months, funding for burial teams, and up to 200 new community care centres. Around 800 Ministry of Defence personnel are also helping out, and hundreds of NHS volunteers are expected to arrive in coming weeks. Last week, a Royal Fleet Auxiliary vessel, RFA Argus, also docked in the Sierra Leonean capital, Freetown, equipped with offroad vehicles and helicopters that are being used to reach isolated rural areas.

“The terrain is a real challenge, as is the climate,” said Captain David Eagles, the Argus’s commanding officer. “Aircraft engines like thick, cold air not hot humid conditions, but we are managing.”

Dr Tim Brooks, an ex-army physician who is now leading a team from Public Health England out in Sierra Leone, said awareness of the dangers of Ebola was now well established in urban areas, but that work still needed to be done in smaller rural areas.

“There has been a huge mobilisation of govt and international resources, and as you drive around Sierra Leone there are warning signs about Ebola everywhere, but there are still isolated rural areas where there are pockets of Ebola denial.”

Over the next few days and weeks around 50 volunteers will arrive to form the lab technician team, joining from Public Health England, universities, the NHS and the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory.

International Development Secretary Justine Greening said: “Some of Britain’s best and brightest scientists will be at the forefront of our UK-funded testing facilities, ensuring that people with Ebola are isolated and then treated as soon as possible.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141101eab1003jt


News
American Ebola nurse wins court battle to avoid quarantine order
Philip Sherwell; David Millward
734 words
1 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
18
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
THE American nurse at the centre of a national battle over quarantine rules for health workers returning from west Africa yesterday won the latest round in her fight not to be forced into three weeks of isolation.

A judge in Maine rejected a request by the state to impose a mandatory quarantine order on Kaci Hickox in a ruling that was being closely followed by politicians and heath chiefs across the country.

Miss Hickox, who has showed no Ebola symptoms and twice tested negative for the disease, had refused to agree to a voluntary home quarantine during the 21–day incubation period since returning home from treating Ebola patients for an aid agency in Sierra Leone.

Judge Charles LaVerdiere had initially imposed a temporary order requiring Miss Hickox to keep three feet away from people and to avoid public places.

But after hearing arguments from lawyers for the state and Miss Hickox and evidence from a health expert, he lifted those restrictions ahead of a full hearing to be held on Tuesday.

"This decision has critical implication for [Miss Hickox's] freedom, as guaranteed by the US and Maine constitutions, as well as the public's right to be protected from the potential severe harm posed by transmission of this devastating disease," he noted in a written ruling.

Explaining his decision, he said that the state "has not met its burden at this time to prove by clear and convincing evidence" that limiting her movements was "necessary to protect other individuals from the dangers of infection".

He did order that she take part in daily "direct active monitoring" of her health with state officials, keep the authorities informed of any travel plans and immediately report any Ebola symptoms. Miss Hickox has agreed to those conditions.

David Soley, the lawyer who represented Miss Hickox in court, hailed the ruling as a victory, noting that she was already following the requirements laid down by the judge.

The state police patrol cars that had been stationed outside her home in Fort Kent left within an hour of a ruling that meant that Miss Hickox could move freely in the town. Many residents of the small logging community near the Canadian border had expressed anger at her refusal to follow a voluntary quarantine.

Their concerns were doubtless deepened as the court also heard that an unnamed room–mate of Miss Hickox in Sierra Leone – presumed to be a foreign health worker – had contracted Ebola.

Paul LePage, the governor of Maine, made clear his disappointment with the ruling but said he would not block Miss Hickox's movements.

"Despite our best effort to work collaboratively with this individual, she has refused to cooperate with us," he said.

"As governor, I have done everything I can to protect the health and safety of Mainers. The judge has eased restrictions with this ruling and I believe it is unfortunate. However, the state will abide by law."

Miss Hickox argued that quarantine restrictions would violate her rights and discourage other aid workers from volunteering to tackle Ebola in west Africa.

The confrontation has become the focal point of a struggle between several US states opting for stringent measures and a federal government wary of discouraging potential medical volunteers to combat the outbreak. Aid agencies said that the fight had already deterred doctors and nurses from signing up as volunteers because they were worried about losing an additional three weeks of work and being shunned when they returned from Africa.

"We have seen a big deterrence," said Margaret Aguirre, of the International Medical Corps. "People are worried. They don't want to sign up. Hopefully smarter minds will come to the front."

An Oxford academic has pulled out of a conference on Ebola and tropical diseases in New Orleans after falling foul of strict quarantine rules. Piero Olliaro, a visiting fellow at Lincoln College, Oxford, was due to present several papers about his research on malaria and river blindness.

But he was among a dozen experts who had to withdraw after Louisiana said anyone who has been in the west African countries hit by Ebola in the past three weeks would be confined to their hotel rooms. Dr Piero was in Guinea two weeks ago trying to find a site for testing Ebola medication.

Colin Freeman: Page 22

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141101eab10007b


Features; Teasers
I'm not a leper
21 words
1 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
19
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
News Review p22

Don't shun me because I've been to Ebola–land

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141101eab10004l


Business
Sorrell warns on Ebola, Isil and eurozone but is 'very bullish' on Britain
Szu Ping Chan
420 words
1 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
31
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
THE threat of a triple–dip recession in the eurozone, civil unrest in China and the Ebola crisis have created an unprecedented number of headwinds for the global economy, according to the chief executive of WPP.

Sir Martin Sorrell, founder of the world's largest advertising group by sales, said geopolitical risks "continued to multiply" and had hit confidence among major advertisers.

WPP posted a lower than expected increase in like–for–like sales of 3pc in the third quarter, slightly below the consensus of 3.3pc and a first–half rise of 4.1pc, and said it expects sales to slow further in the next three months.

"There's general uncertainty surrounding the global economy. Ebola obviously has created uncertainty, the rise of Isil in Syria and most importantly the demonstrations in Hong Kong," he said. "China is the engine of economic growth and if it sneezes we all catch a cold. I can't remember a time when there's been so many flashpoints. So I think this just adds to the uncertainty.

"[In the UK] it was the Scottish referendum. Now we have an EU referendum looming if the Conservatives [win the general election], so I think this just raises the temperature of uncertainty and gives people excuses not to do things. And this is against a background of worldwide growth being below trend."

Sir Martin said WPP had also managed to poach "tons" of clients after the collapsed $35bn (£22bn) merger between Publicis and Omnicom, including telecoms giant Vodafone and brewer AB InBev. "Their eyes were off the ball."

Revenue – which the group distinguishes from net sales due to the way it books some income – was up 3.1pc at £2.76bn.

WPP described stagnant growth and stubbornly low inflation in the eurozone as a "grey swan", a term Sir Martin has used for forthcoming events that are known about but could still have unknown consequences. However, he said the current weakness could present a buying opportunity.

Britain remained the global bright spot in terms of growth, he said.

"I'm very bullish on the UK, but I do think if we have a referendum it's going to cast a shadow over the UK economy."

He said the current recovery was like a "gently rising square root sign". "Companies are doing well, including ourselves. But it's been a real slog."

The shares rose 0.8pc £12.18.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141101eab10003e


Business
Walsh rejects business case for expansion at Gatwick
Nathalie Thomas
512 words
1 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
31
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
WILLIE WALSH, the head of British Airways' parent company, has ruled out supporting a second runway at Gatwick, even if it is backed by policymakers.

Mr Walsh, chief executive of International Airlines Group (IAG), suggested there is insufficient demand from airlines for extra capacity at the West Sussex airport.

His intervention comes at another critical moment in the long–running inquiry over where to build Britain's next runway, as the body set up to investigate the issue prepares to test public opinion through a national consultation. Gatwick is battling against its larger rival, Heathrow.

Mr Walsh campaigned heavily for a third runway at Heathrow during a previous inquiry, only to see a decision to expand Britain's biggest airport overturned by the Coalition. He has taken a step back during the current process, which is being carried out by Sir Howard Davies' Airports Commission, but said yesterday that he would be unable to support expansion at Gatwick.

"I would not support a runway at Gatwick because I don't think there is a business case to support it," he said.

Mr Walsh said his objections are "principally based on the demand environment", but he warned that BA would also resist any rise in charges to fund expansion, either at Gatwick or at Heathrow.

"I don't think it [demand] is as strong as Gatwick would argue," he said. He warned both airports that they would have to show "how charges [for airlines] will reduce rather than increase", as IAG unveiled its third–quarter results.

Shares in IAG soared yesterday on guidance that full–year operating profit could rise to as much as €1.37bn (£1.07bn) following a 30pc jump in profits during the key summer months.

The airlines giant, which is next week expected to lay out a road map towards paying its first dividend, said third–quarter operating profit before exceptional costs reached €900m, a better–than–expected €210m improvement on the same period last year, as a major restructuring at its Spanish flag carrier, Iberia, continued to pay off.

IAG, formed through the 2011 merger of BA and Iberia, said it expects full–year operating profit, before exceptional costs, to be €550m to €600m higher than in 2013, when it reached €770m, representing a slight upgrade on previous guidance. The upgrade pushed shares 4.7pc higher to 409.2p.

"The recent Ebola outbreak hit all the airlines, but IAG, with its robust management, has pulled out some bumper, analyst–beating figures. A return to yearhighs of 460p [a share] looks inevitable," said Amrit Panesar, senior trader at Accendo Markets.

BA also performed strongly in the third quarter, making an operating profit of €607m during the three months to September 30, compared with €477m during the same period in 2013.

Operating profit at Iberia jumped to €162m from €74m previously, but growth at IAG's budget airline, Vueling, was far more muted, edging up just €1m to €140m, as competition in the European low–cost market heats up.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141101eab10003a


Features
THE WEEK IN WESTMINSTER
447 words
1 November 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; North
26
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
MONDAY, NOV 3

Commons: Work and Pensions Questions. Recall of MPs Bill, Committee of the whole House. Motion to approve a money resolution relating to the International Development (Official Development Assistance Target) Bill. Short debate on the future of Blackpool Airport.

Lords: Questions. Infrastructure Bill [HL], Report stage. Debate on the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament, and establishing an EU agency for law enforcement training.

TUESDAY, NOV 4

Commons: Treasury Questions. Ten Minute Rule Motion: Abortion (Sex–Selection). Modern Slavery Bill, Report stage and third reading. Short debate on abuse on the internet of Members of Parliament. Westminster Hall: Debates on: Meat slaughtered in accordance with religious rites; Broadband in Cheltenham; Assessment of the second year of the badger culls; Gene testing for women diagnosed with ovarian cancer; Sentencing for dangerous driving offences. Lords: Questions. Social Action, Responsibility and Heroism Bill, Second reading. Debate on the report of the Economic Affairs Committee on The Economic Impact on UK Energy Policy of Shale Gas and Oil.

WEDNESDAY, NOV 5

Commons: International Development Questions. At noon, questions to the Prime Minister. Ten Minute Rule Motion: Armed Forces (Prevention of Discrimination). Opposition Day Debates. Short debate on Ebola in West Africa. Westminster Hall: Debates on: Care workers; Ofcom's supervision of mobile phone companies; Situation in the dairy industry; Newlands Park mobile home park site management and park home residents' rights; Government policy on transient ischaemic attacks.

Lords: Questions. Serious Crime Bill [HL], Third reading. Infrastructure Bill [HL], Report stage (Day 2).

Regret motion relating to the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (Regulated Activities) Regulations 2014.

THURSDAY, NOV 6

Commons: Energy and Climate Change Questions. Statement on the future business of the House. Two backbench business debates: i) UK foreign policy towards Iran; ii) Promotion of the living wage. Short debate on Sainsbury's roadworks in Belgrave. Westminster Hall: Debate on US–UK Mutual Defence Agreement. Lords: Introductions of Baroness Brady and Lord Callanan. Questions. Debate on women facing homelessness, domestic violence and social exclusion. Short debate on the international response to Ebola. Debate on how Government policies effect low income and vulnerable consumers. Short debate on the European Union Committee Report on food waste.

FRIDAY, NOV 7

Commons: Second readings of: Health and Social Care (Safety and Quality) Bill; Off–patent Drugs Bill; School Admissions Bill; Football Governance Bill; Road Traffic Regulation (Temporary Closure for Filming) Bill; Illegal Immigrants (Criminal Sanctions) Bill (Day 2); House of Lords (Maximum Membership) Bill; EU Membership (Audit of Costs and Benefits) Bill; Wild Animals in Circuses Bill. Short debate on services at Stafford Hospital.

Lords: Assisted Dying Bill [HL], Committee of the whole House.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141101eab100003


NEWS
Ebola: Oxford academic banned from US conference
By David Millward US Correspondent
452 words
31 October 2014
05:30 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Piero Olliaro told he will be confined to New Orleans hotel room

An Oxford academic has had to pull out of a conference on Ebola and tropical diseases in New Orleans after being told he would be confined to his hotel room.

Piero Olliaro, a visiting fellow at Lincoln College, Oxford, was due to present several papers on research he had been doing on malaria and river blindness.

But Dr Olliaro, who is a senior figure at the World Health Organisation Special Programme Research and Training in Tropical Diseases, has fallen foul of Louisiana’s strict quarantine rules.

He is one of around a dozen experts who have had to withdraw from the conference – the world’s biggest on tropical diseases – because of Louisiana’s strict quarantine rules.

The state has said anyone who has been in Sierra Leone, Liberia or Guinea, the countries worst hit by Ebola, over the past three weeks should not attend the conference.

“We see no utility in you travelling to New Orleans to simply be confined to your room,” it has told potential delegates.

Dr Piero was in Guinea two weeks ago trying to find a site suitable for testing Ebola medication.

This has dealt a major blow to the American Society of Tropical Medicine, which had planned the year’s biggest conference on tropical diseases including Ebola and where the keynote speaker will be Bill Gates.

“I got the letter on Wednesday, I can’t say it was totally unexpected,” Dr Piero told the Telegraph.

“I have been in constant touch with the public health authorities in Britain and saw my physician a couple of hours ago.

“The vast majority of people like me would be allowed to travel and work in other countries. When we come back we self monitor,” he added.

“The world can survive without my papers, but when you take into account everything else it could do great damage.

“One of the things they will be discussing is Ebola, but they are excluding Ebola experts.”

Alan Magill, the society’s president, said that other delegates could also pull out.

“They may decide not to come because they are afraid of being confined to their hotel rooms.”

The Society has condemned the state’s move in a statement saying policies that hinder health care workers was counterproductive.

It added: “While the state of Louisiana’s policies are outside of the scientific understanding of Ebola transmission — and acknowledged by the state health officials’ own admission — we recognise that the state has determined its policy in this matter.

“The Society does not agree with the policy as outlined by the Louisiana.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141031eaav0053l


NEWS
US ambassador questioned at JFK after Ebola visit
By Sebastian Whale
298 words
31 October 2014
10:41 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Samantha Power, ambassador to the UN, must report to New York authorities every day for three weeks after returning from an official visit to Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia

The US ambassador to the United Nations has been questioned at a New York airport after returning from Ebola-stricken West Africa.

Samantha Power arrived at John F Kennedy airport on Thursday on a US government plane after visiting Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia, three countries worst affected by the virus that has killed more than 5,000 people.

Upon leaving the plane, customs officers took Ms Power’s temperature before asking questions about her health and interaction with Ebola patients. Ms Power’s delegation is not believed to have come into contact with anyone infected.

The ambassador was then given an information kit including a thermometer and a card to record her temperature. She must report twice daily to the New York state health department for the next 20 days.

Several US states have imposed a mandatory quarantine on healthcare workers returning from the region who had contact with Ebola patients.

The crackdown came after Craig Spencer, a New York doctor diagnosed with Ebola last week, traveled back to the city and went about his daily life for a week before being diagnosed.

Speaking in Brussels on Thursday, Ms Power suggested some countries were not doing enough to fight Ebola and some restrictions on aid workers returning home from Ebola-hit nations could deter thousands from helping.

Médecins Sans Frontières also warned on Friday that the quarantine measures were having a “chilling effect” on its work.

Executive director Sophie Delaunay suggested that some health workers are delaying returning to the US to avoid “stigmatisation at home”.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141031eaav003bi


FINANCE
Willie Walsh: 'No business case' to support a second runway at Gatwick
By Nathalie Thomas Transport and Leisure Editor
784 words
31 October 2014
10:03 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Boss of British Airways' parent company suggests there isn't enough demand from airlines for a second runway at Gatwick Airport

Willie Walsh, the head of British Airways' parent company, has ruled out supporting a second runway at Gatwick, even if it is given the go-ahead by policymakers, arguing that he doesn't believe there is a business case to support expansion at the West Sussex airport.

Mr Walsh, who is chief executive of International Airlines Group (IAG), suggested there is insufficient demand from airlines for extra capacity at Gatwick.

His intervention comes at another critical moment in the long-running inquiry over where to build Britain's next runway, as the body set up to investigate the issue prepares to test public opinion through a national consultation. Gatwick is battling against its larger rival Heathrow for the right to expand.

Mr Walsh campaigned heavily for a third runway at Heathrow during a previous inquiry, only to see a decision to expand Britain's biggest airport over-turned by the Coalition when it came to power. He has taken a step back during the current process, which is being carried out by Sir Howard Davies' Airports Commission, but said on Friday that he would be unable to support expansion at Gatwick, even if it was recommended by policymakers.

"I would not support a runway at Gatwick because I don’t think there is a business case to support it," the airlines boss said.

Mr Walsh said his objections are "principally based on the demand environment" but he warned that BA would also strongly resist any increase in charges to fund expansion, either at Gatwick or at Heathrow.

"I don’t think it [demand] is as strong as Gatwick would argue," he said. He warned both airports that they would have to demonstrate "how charges [for airlines] will reduce rather than increase", as IAG unveiled its third quarter results on Friday.

But a spokesman from Gatwick hit back: “Demand is strong and we are close to full capacity today. Airlines and passengers are voting with their feet and Gatwick is the fastest growing airport in London, as our monthly traffic figures underline.

“Building a second runway at Gatwick will be cheaper than expanding Heathrow and those savings will be passed on to passengers who increasingly want affordable flying. A new runway at Gatwick would also give London two world class airports, delivering more competition, choice and even lowers fares for passengers and UK plc.”

Shares in IAG soared on Friday on guidance that full-year operating profit could rise to as much as €1.37 billion (£1.07bn) following a 30pc jump in profits during the key summer months.

The airlines giant, which is next week expected to lay out a road map towards paying its first dividend, said third quarter operating profit before exceptional costs reached €900m, a better-than-expected €210m improvement on the same period last year, as a major restructuring at its Spanish flag carrier, Iberia, continued to pay off.

IAG, which was formed through the 2011 merger of BA and Iberia, said it now expects full-year operating profit, before exceptional costs, to be between €550m and €600m higher than in 2013, when it reached €770m, representing a slight upgrade on previous guidance. The upgrade pushed shares in early trading to a six-month high.

"The recent Ebola outbreak hit all the airlines, but IAG, with its robust management, has pulled out some bumper, analyst-beating figures. Already increased price targets have been issued this morning by analysts. A return to year-highs of 460p [a share] look inevitable," said Amrit Panesar, senior trader at Accendo Markets.

BA also performed strongly in the third quarter, making an operating profit of €607m during the three months to September 30, compared to €477m during the same period in 2013.

Operating profit at Iberia jumped to €162m from €74m previously but growth at IAG's budget airline, Vueling, was far more muted, edging up just €1m to €140m, as competition in the European low-cost market heats up.

The third quarter performance pushed up group operating profit after exceptional items for the first nine months to €1.048bn, a significant turnaround from €348m at the same point last year.

IAG's performance contrasts dramatically with that of its German rival, Lufthansa, which on Thursday issued its second profit warning this year as it struggles to restructure its cost base.

IAG has been consulting investors on a dividend policy, which it is expected to lay out at a capital markets day next Friday.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141031eaav0038u


NEWS
Hugo Swire first UK minister to visit Cuba in almost decade
By Danny Boyle
269 words
31 October 2014
06:29 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Foreign Office minister to meet senior government figures on communist island to discuss trade, investment and concerns about human rights

Hugo Swire has become the first British Government minister to visit Cuba[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/centralamericaandthecaribbean/cuba/] in almost 10 years.

He will meet senior government figures to discuss trade and investment as well as raise UK concerns about the human rights situation on the communist island.

Mr Swire, a Foreign Office minister, said: “It has been too long since a UK minister was in Cuba, but I’m very happy to rectify that.

“Although we naturally have our differences, we work together where we can, including on the response to the Ebola epidemic, where Cuba is playing a vital international role.

“Cuba is sending hundreds of medical professionals to UK-run facilities in Sierra Leone on top of staff already in that country and in Guinea.

"I am proud that we can work together on such an important cause, and one which the UK has committed £205m to tackling. It has the potential to become a global problem and as such needs a global solution."

The Foreign Office said Mr Swire arrived in Cuba on Wednesday and leaves the Caribbean island on Saturday.

A spokesman said he will call on ministers responsible for foreign affairs as well as trade, health and tourism to discuss ways Britain can build on its work in the country.

Mr Swire was also due to meet Mariela Castro, the daughter of Cuban president Raúl Castro and the niece of former president Fidel Castro.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141031eaav00234


FINANCE
IAG's strong results pave the way for first dividend
By Nathalie Thomas Transport and Leisure Editor
399 words
31 October 2014
06:16 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Profits at the company which owns British Airways jumped 30pc in the third quarter, leading to an upgrade in its full-year profits forecast

British Airways' parent company said full year operating profit could soar to as much as €1.37 billion (£1.07bn) after profits jumped by 30pc during the key summer months.

International Airlines Group, which is next week expected to lay out a road map towards paying its first dividend, said third quarter operating profit before exceptional costs reached €900m, a better-than-expected €210m improvement on the same period last year, as a major restructuring at its Spanish flag carrier, Iberia, continued to pay off.

The airlines giant, which was formed through the 2011 merger of BA and Iberia, said it now expects full-year operating profit, before exceptional costs, to be between €550m and €600m higher than in 2013, when it reached €770m, representing a slight upgrade on previous guidance. The upgrade pushed shares in early trading to a six-month high.

"The recent Ebola outbreak hit all the airlines, but IAG, with its robust management, has pulled out some bumper, analyst-beating figures. Already increased price targets have been issued this morning by analysts. A return to year-highs of 460p [a share] look inevitable," said Amrit Panesar, senior trader at Accendo Markets.

BA also performed strongly in the third quarter, making an operating profit of €607m during the three months to September 30, compared to €477m during the same period in 2013.

Operating profit at Iberia jumped to €162m from €74m previously but growth at IAG's budget airline, Vueling, was far more muted, edging up just €1m to €140m, as competition in the European low-cost market heats up.

The third quarter performance pushed up group operating profit after exceptional items for the first nine months to €1.048bn, a significant turnaround from €348m at the same point last year.

Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, said: "We continued to grow capacity efficiently and both our non-fuel and fuel unit cost performances were strong with the latter boosted by the introduction of new, more efficient aircraft into our fleet."

IAG has been consulting investors on a dividend policy, which it is expected to lay out at a capital markets day next Friday.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141031eaav001e1


CULTURE
Why Britons only really feel up when they’re down
By Rowan Pelling
711 words
31 October 2014
05:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Cheer up, our persistent gloomy mood is all down to our genes, and men in particular seem to enjoy a pessimistic outlook

One major difference between a middle-aged British woman and her twentysomething self is that the older incarnation is cured of the notion she can make a man happy[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/picturegalleries/10302485/The-worlds-happiest-countries.html] . By 46 she’ll have realised British males enjoy being harbingers of doom.

In fact, it’s something she should have noted in 1984, when every male she knew had Morrissey’s glumster anthem Heaven knows I’m Miserable Now on a loop. But back then, in her teens, she believed Jane Eyre’s happy fate was to rescue Mr Rochester. Over the course of the next three decades it will dawn on her that Eyre’s sole reward for this supposed rescue is a lifetime shackled to a blind would-be bigamist in his burnt-out mansion. But by then she’ll also realise she prefers stories that end “They all lived unhappily ever after.” Goodbye Charlotte Brontë, hello Val McDermid.

The reassuring news is that this persistent strand of cynicism is not the fault of we Britons. Nature, not nurture, formed our downbeat personalities. Prof Andrew Oswald of Warwick University claimed this week our gloomy outlook is heavily influenced by the gene that regulates the neurotransmitter serotonin. Brits tend to have a short form of the gene, which means a lack of serotonin and a bleaker cast of mind.

I now feel a tiny bit bad about the 20 years I’ve spent berating my husband for his Titanic feats of pessimism. Take the evening I’d just finished reading Cormac McCarthy’s gut-wrenching apocalypse novel, The Road, featuring cannibals tucking in to roast baby. I put it down and said to the spouse, “Well, that was soul-destroying.” He replied with grim satisfaction, “And that’s exactly what’s going to happen – and sooner than you think.”

His bleak joy at signs of a global pandemic are also guaranteed to smother any stubborn hint of mirth. Over the past two decades I’ve heard him declare, “This will polish us all off”, about swine flu, avian flu, Sars and, inevitably, Ebola. If I’m really lucky he will segue in to a lecture on the risks of antibiotic resistance.

Gaining momentum, he delivers tirades on the failure of the political classes, the concreting-over of our pleasant land, the collapse of modern infrastructure and why we’ll be bankrupt before he dies. He recently became so downcast at the prospect of a small inheritance (tax, probate, executors, you name it) that you’d think he’d been sued, rather than left a gift.

I used to think these rants formed a concerted attempt to drive me to insanity, or divorce. Now I know it’s just genetics, I can relax and dispense a glass of Scotch.

It now makes total sense that the British philosopher John Gray has enjoyed such acclaim with his nihilistic view of mankind as an amoral species, engaged in an endless cycle of destruction. It’s just an intellectual expression of Private Frazer’s refrain in Dad’s Army: “We’re all doomed.” It may also explain why so much British TV has been comedy and light entertainment; without doses of visual Prozac, we’d all be slitting our wrists.

The Danes, on the other hand, whose super-long form of the serotonin-affecting gene renders them as cheerful as turbo-powered larks, have sufficient joy to spare to schedule child murder as primetime drama. While we were watching the jolly Downton, they were glued to The Killing. Then Nordic Noir crossed the North Sea and sang its siren song to our dark hearts. Before you could say “homicidal maniac” we were creating our own cheerless sagas, culminating in this week’s The Missing on BBC1.

Only a nation with an inbuilt propensity for despair would embrace the screening of a drama about an abducted child during the half-term holiday. At least we can console ourselves with the thought that the French are even more morose than we Brits. They are Les Misérables to our Victor Meldrews.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141031eaav000un


NEWS
Let's not stigmatise aid workers over Ebola
By Colin Freeman Chief foreign correspondent
915 words
31 October 2014
04:13 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Kaci Hickox should not be made a scapegoat for public anxiety about Ebola

Compared to the legions of other existential threats that Americans worry about on a daily basis, Kaci Hickox is not an obvious Public Enemy No 1. Rather than being a terrorist, Anthrax-poisoner or random gun nut, the 33-year-old volunteer with Medecins Sans Frontieres has just come back from a long stint treating Ebola victims in Sierra Leone. With a pretty smile and a luxuriant mane of red hair, she is the very image of the feisty, courageous aid worker, the sort that America's Peace Corps might use to front a recruitment campaign.

Since coming back home, however, Ms Hickox, has proved a little feistier than Americans expect their aid workers to be. Already upset at being treated with great suspicion by US immigration officials - never the most welcoming people - she has threatened to sue New Jersey governor Chris Christie for trying to insist that she endure a mandatory three week quarantine upon her return, which involved residing in a sealed tent at Newark Hospital without a flushing toilet. She was allowed out after testing negative and has since made her way to her home state of Maine, only to find local officials now seeking a judge's permission to get her tested again, lest she still be "incubating".

Ms Hickox has been backed by both the Obama administration and disease control experts. They point out that would-be Ebola carriers are only infectious once they actually start showing symptoms of the virus, and that until then, there is no real point in sticking them in hermetically sealed tents. But as of yet, common sense has not prevailed. Far from it. On Thursday, irritated at the Maine authorities insisting that she remain under quarantine in her house, she went for a bike ride[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11199462/Ebola-nurse-breaks-house-curfew-to-go-on-cycle-ride.html] . With no court order yet in place, Maine police, who have been parked up outside her house, ended up following her in a Benny Hill-style chase.

Given that Ms Hickox lives in a remote rural corner of the state, the risks here are pretty minimal either way, unless you count the possibility of a pile-up involving the huge media pack who have also been following her (most showing no worry about infection). But the case has still polarised America.

On one side are the likes of Christie, who say that Ebola is such a serious threat that officials cannot simply rely on a system of voluntary quarantine for aid workers, whereby it is left to them to report themselves sick. And on the other are those who feel it is a shoddy way to treat people who have been out risking their lives to help others. Mr Christie, they believe, would not treat US troops in the same fashion (some 3,000 of whom are currently in or en route to Liberia).

I should probably declare a certain bias here, given that I myself have been in Ms Hickox's position. I've been out to Liberia to report on the Ebola crisis twice in the last few months[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11024042/Meet-the-worlds-bravest-undertakers-Liberias-Ebola-burial-squad.html], and on both occasions have found myself having to reassure people when I come back that I am not a public health hazard. As per the standard practice among aid workers, each time I return I inform my local health authority. Their advice is that as long as one is not feeling sick, there is no reason not to continue life as normal. But it isn't always that simple - especially if, like me, you are also a parent, dropping children off at school and nursery, where some other parents may take the view of Governor Christie that it's better to be safe than sorry.

However, if Britain or anywhere else wants to play a part in stopping Ebola, there is a limit to how cautious we can afford to be. The government is trying to recruit up to 1,500 volunteers from the NHS to help deal with the crisis in Sierra Leone, without which it may well continue spreading into the wider world. Were those volunteers were to be placed in quarantine tents for three weeks when they returned, I can't imagine many people would put their hands up.

True, as of yet, the UK has no intention of implementing the measures that New Jersey has done. But we in Britain have not yet had a major Ebola scare, as the US has had already in Texas. Were it to happen here - and the chances are it will at some point - the government will no doubt come under pressure to follow in Governor Christie's footsteps.

There is, however, a wider principle at stake here that everybody should be able to agree on. Which is that when it comes to public health issues, precautions based on sound science should be what counts, not popular panic or politicians anxious about bad headlines.

It's about analysis of risks, working out what is sensible and reasonable in comparison to the benefits gained. That's one of the reasons why we in the West have such a good record on public health in the first place, because we don't let irrationality rule the day. If we choose to do so, we put ourselves in the same category as the Liberians and Sierra Leoneans who blame Ebola on witchcraft.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141030eaau00567


News
American Ebola nurse defies quarantine order
Philip Sherwell
527 words
31 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
22
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
IN OTHER circumstances, it would just have been a young woman taking a bicycle ride with her boyfriend along quiet country lanes through the autumnal splendour of northern Maine.

But Kaci Hickox was followed on her foray by two police cars and a posse of journalists as she defied a quarantine request from the state government.

Miss Hickox is the nurse who has returned from treating Ebola patients in Sierra Leone showing no symptoms of the disease and is refusing to follow a voluntary home quarantine order requested by Maine for the 21–day incubation period.

Her stand has earned her withering criticism from some neighbours in the small logging town of Fort Kent and put her at the centre of a political, medical and legal debate about how to handle not just Ebola patients but also US health care volunteers returning from the "hot zones" of West Africa.

Following her bike ride, Paul LePage, Maine's Republican governor, said that negotiations "have failed" and he was understood to have asked a judge to impose a mandatory quarantine on public health grounds.

Miss Hickox, an aid agency volunteer, has said that she will fight any such ruling through the courts and is already represented by two prominent New York civil liberties lawyers.

The 33–year–old has twice tested negative for Ebola and is monitoring herself for any symptoms of illness, including fever. Medical experts say that it is impossible for anyone to be contagious if they do not have symptoms and even then the disease can only be transmitted at close proximity by bodily fluids. "I am not going to sit around and be bullied by politicians and forced to stay in my home when I am not a risk to the American public," she said. She argued that "stigmatising" and isolating returning health workers would deter their much–needed travel to Africa and would only fuel irrational fears about how Ebola spread.

But in Fort Kent, an isolated community near the Canadian border, there is little sympathy for those principles. "It's causing consternation here," said Jim Majka. "It's a simple thing. Stay in quarantine until it's over and she's good."

Miss Hickox came to national prominence when she was forcibly quarantined in a medical tent outside a New Jersey hospital after flying into Newark airport. The state's combative governor Chris Christie reluctantly sanctioned her release after she threatened to sue him. She does seem to have some backing from President Barack Obama. He has warned that the imposition of overly restrictive measures on returning health workers would undermine American interests by discouraging others from tackling the crisis in Africa.

"We know that the best way to protect Americans from Ebola is to stop the outbreak at its source," he said during an appearance with US health workers, some of whom have also returned from the region within the last 21 days.

But Chuck Hagel, the defence secretary, ordered that all US troops deployed to support the fight against Ebola in Africa must undergo a mandatory 21–day quarantine on their return.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141031eaav0007m


News
Some may have natural immunity., say Scientists
Sarah Knapton
148 words
31 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
22
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Scientists have discovered that some people are likely to be naturally immune to the Ebola virus. A study in mice showed that genetic variations govern how victims will respond after contracting the disease.

Some completely resist the virus, while others suffer only a moderate illness. However, many still succumb to bleeding, organ failure and shock. Researchers at a biocontainment laboratory in Montana found that all mice lost weight in the first few days after infection. However, nearly one in five of the mice not only survived, but also fully regained their lost weight within two weeks. After a fortnight they had no evidence of the disease. The authors of the study, published in the journal Science, believe that those who have survived during the recent outbreak in West Africa may have had natural immunity.

Sarah Knapton, Science Editor

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141031eaav0007l


Editorial; Opinion, Columns
Why the Brits only really feel up when they're down
ROWAN PELLING
703 words
31 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
30
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
One major difference between a middle–aged British woman and her 20–something self is that the older incarnation is cured of the notion she can make a man happy. By 46 she'll have realised British males enjoy being harbingers of doom.

In fact, it's something she should have noted in 1984, when every male she knew had Morrissey's glumster anthem Heaven knows I'm Miserable Now on a loop. But back then, in her teens, she believed Jane Eyre's happy fate was to rescue Mr Rochester. Over the course of the next three decades it will dawn on her that Eyre's sole reward for this supposed rescue is a lifetime shackled to a blind would–be bigamist in his burnt–out mansion. But by then she'll also realise she prefers stories that end "They all lived unhappily ever after." Goodbye Charlotte Brontë, hello Val McDermid.

The reassuring news is that this persistent strand of cynicism is not the fault of we Britons. Nature, not nurture, formed our downbeat personalities. Prof Andrew Oswald of Warwick University claimed this week our gloomy outlook is heavily influenced by the gene that regulates the neurotransmitter serotonin. Brits tend to have a short form of the gene, which means a lack of serotonin and a bleaker cast of mind.

I now feel a tiny bit bad about the 20 years I've spent berating my husband for his Titanic feats of pessimism. Take the evening I'd just finished reading Cormac McCarthy's gut–wrenching apocalypse novel, The Road, featuring cannibals tucking in to roast baby. I put it down and said to the spouse, "Well, that was soul–destroying." He replied with grim satisfaction, "And that's exactly what's going to happen – and sooner than you think."

His bleak joy at signs of a global pandemic are also guaranteed to smother any stubborn hint of mirth. Over the past two decades I've heard him declare, "This will polish us all off", about swine flu, avian flu, Sars and, inevitably, Ebola. If I'm really lucky he will segue in to a lecture on the risks of antibiotic resistance.

Gaining momentum, he delivers tirades on the failure of the political classes, the concreting–over of our pleasant land, the collapse of modern infrastructure and why we'll be bankrupt before he dies. He recently became so downcast at the prospect of a small inheritance (tax, probate, executors, you name it) that you'd think he'd been sued, rather than left a gift.

I used to think these rants formed a concerted attempt to drive me to insanity, or divorce. Now I know it's just genetics, I can relax and dispense a glass of Scotch.

It now makes total sense that the British philosopher John Gray has enjoyed such acclaim with his nihilistic view of mankind as an amoral species, engaged in an endless cycle of destruction. It's just an intellectual expression of Private Frazer's refrain in Dad's Army: "We're all doomed." It may also explain why so much British TV has been comedy and light entertainment; without doses of visual Prozac, we'd all be slitting our wrists.

The Danes, on the other hand, whose super–long form of the serotonin–affecting gene renders them as cheerful as turbo–powered larks, have sufficient joy to spare to schedule child murder as primetime drama. While we were watching the jolly Downton, they were glued to The Killing. Then Nordic Noir crossed the North Sea and sang its siren song to our dark hearts. Before you could say "homicidal maniac" we were creating our own cheerless sagas, culminating in this week's The Missing on BBC1.

Only a nation with an inbuilt propensity for despair would embrace the screening of a drama about an abducted child during the half–term holiday. At least we can console ourselves with the thought that the French are even more morose than we Brits. They are Les Misérables to our Victor Meldrews.

Comment on Rowan Pelling's view at telegraph.co.uk/personalview

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141031eaav0005h


NEWS
Ebola outbreak: Ebola may not be a deadly disease for everyone, scientists find
By Sarah Knapton Science Editor
436 words
30 October 2014
03:49 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Researchers have found that natural immunity may exist to Ebola, after discovering that some animals get over the disease quickly, without major symptoms

Ebola may not be a deadly disease for everyone, after scientists discovered that some people are likely to be naturally immune to the virus.

A study in mice showed that genetic variations govern how ill victims will get after contracting the disease.

Some completely resist the disease, while others suffer only a moderate illness. However many still succumb to bleeding, organ failure and shock.

The research was conducted in a highly secure, state-of-the-art bio lab in Montana, US.

Researchers found that all mice lost weight in the first few days after infection. However, nearly one in five of the mice not only survived, but also fully regained their lost weight within two weeks.

After a fortnight they had no evidence of the disease and their livers looked normal.

One in nine of the mice were partially resistant and less than half of these died.

However seventy per cent of the mice had a greater than 50 per cent mortality.

The authors believe that those who have survived during the recent outbreak in West Africa may have had natural immunity.

"Our data suggests that genetic factors play a significant role in disease outcome,” said co-author Dr Michael Katze, of Washington University's Department of Microbiology.

"We hope that medical researchers will be able to rapidly apply these findings to candidate therapeutics and vaccines."

The Ebola death toll stands at 4,922 out of 13,703 cases worldwide.

British experts said it was clear that how deadly the Ebola virus was, was partly down to the genes of the victim.

Prof Andrew Easton, Professor of Virology, University of Warwick, said:“This paper demonstrates that the genes of the host play a role in determining the outcome of Ebola infection in terms of the severity of the disease, at least in mice.

“Most of these genes are involved in the very earliest stages of our immune response to

Prof Jonathan Ball, Professor of Molecular Virology, University of Nottingham, added: “We know that host genetics influences infection outcome for a range of viruses, like HIV and norovirus. We've also suspected that genetics plays a role in susceptibility to Ebola virus infection.

“It's a reminder of how infectious diseases shape the evolution of a host; and the human host is no different to any other.”

The study was published in the journal Science.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141030eaau00566


CULTURE
Cliff Martinez: the Drive composer's best scores
By Hayden East
787 words
30 October 2014
02:07 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Ahead of Zane Lowe's BBC3 'remix', we celebrate the man behind the original

It’s almost scary to think that if The Red Hot Chili Peppers[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/music/rockandpopfeatures/8749070/The-Red-Hot-Chili-Peppers-interview-Turn-down-the-heat-Not-just-yet.html] hadn’t fired Cliff Martinez as their drummer back in 1986, the world might be without some of the most successful film scores in modern cinema.

Traditionally, the art of film scoring was the territory of European classicists, but in recent decades a generation of rockers-turned-composers have caused a shift within the form. Martinez is hardly the first of his kind (see Frank Zappa and Tangerine Dream) but his transition has certainly been the most effortless.

As the outrage over Zane Lowe’s Drive rescore[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/tvandradio/11177029/Zane-Lowe-defends-BBC-decision-to-let-him-re-score-Drive.html] reaches fever pitch, now is the perfect time to discover Martinez's work. Below are 10 of his finest scores, each dynamic enough to be listened to without their accompanying visuals – always the sign of a talented composer.

Sex, Lies and Videotape (1989)

Made on a shoestring budget, Steven Soderbergh[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/film/10078173/Steven-Soderbergh-interview-I-needed-to-see-Jason-Bourne-on-top-of-Gordon-Gekko.html] ’s debut film (and its score) heralded the nineties’ indie film revolution. Guided by the then-rookie director, Martinez used ambient pioneer Brian Eno[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/music/rockandpopfeatures/8146424/Brian-Eno-interview-Lady-Gagas-meat-dress-I-did-it-first.html] as inspiration for what would soon become his trademark sound, embracing texture without sacrificing his innate sense of rhythm. He's now made the score – as well as much of his pre-millennium work – available as a free download[http://cliff-martinez.com/downloads.html] .

Kafka (1992)

Soderbergh didn't fare as well with his sophomore effort, an appropriately Kafkaesque biopic of the 20th-century German author[https://www.google.co.uk/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0CCMQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.telegraph.co.uk%2Fculture%2Fculturenews%2F7903352%2FUnpublished-Franz-Kafka-story-discovered.html&ei=EFBSVL70Ie6u7AbIqYGYBQ&usg=AFQjCNFqM9oYPYR0VwZlKdhttwIf7Opm8g&bvm=bv.78597519,d.ZGU] . Regardless, Martinez perfectly captured the film's blurred distinctions between fact and Kafka's fiction by casting a shadow of electronic ambience over traditional string instrumentation.

King of the Hill (1993)

This Depression-era bildungsroman allowed Martinez to deviate from his usual style, producing the most playful and emotive work of his career. While he didn't quite fulfil Soderbergh's impossible request to channel John Williams, it nevertheless remains entirely deserving of your attention.

Traffic (2000)

A throwback of sorts to his rock'n'roll days, Traffic's score hinges upon the guitar work of David Torn, digitally manipulated to suit the film's drug-related subject matter. It also signalled the beginning of Martinez's popularity among critics, earning him both a Grammy and a BMI Film Music Award.

Narc (2002)

Chosen for its inventiveness, Martinez's compositions for Joe Carnahan's police drama are marked by their experimentalism. Subsituting computers and instruments for scrap metal and street junk, his down and dirty approach to the score is the perfect fit for the film's portrayal of unethical policework.

Solaris (2002)

In the sleeve notes for the soundtrack, Soderbergh credits Martinez with helping him tell the story of his critically-acclaimed sci-fi drama[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/film/starsandstories/3669302/Must-have-movie-Solaris-2002.html] . As meditative as the film itself, pieces are broodingly drawn out, while the music set to its lift-off scene comes from the unlikeliest of instruments: the steel drum.

Drive (2011)

You might be surprised to learn that the most successful soundtrack of Martinez’s career almost didn’t happen for him. Johnny Jewel, who fronts the transatlantic neo-disco outfit Chromatics, was initially commissioned to work on the score, but was replaced by Martinez at the last minute at the studio's request. Their single Tick of the Clock remains, but it’s Martinez’s evocative yet unobtrusive approach that gives substance to Drive[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/film/dvd-reviews/9041959/Drive-DVD-review.html] ’s highly stylised visuals.

Zane Lowe assured sceptics that his rescore “comes from a place of respect.” It's an admirable effort, but a more respectful move would've been to let it be.

Contagion (2011)

The creativity between Martinez and Soderbergh showed no sign of diminishing on this, their 10th collaboration. The director had first imagined the film with music from The French Connection and Marathon Man, but ultimately went for a more contemporary approach in order to emphasise pace and energy. Martinez does just that, approaching Contagion[https://www.google.co.uk/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=2&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0CCwQFjAB&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.telegraph.co.uk%2Fculture%2Ffilm%2Fvenice-film-festival%2F8739462%2FVenice-film-festival-Contagion-review.html&ei=G1FSVPSdA-re7Aaf6YGIBQ&usg=AFQjCNFr76VVkiXtEc-UDykrndPPZYrAaQ] as though it were a horror flick. Guaranteed to play in the minds of those in fear of Ebola.

Only God Forgives (2013)

Nicolas Winding Refn's neo-noir crime thriller[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/film/filmreviews/10073237/Only-God-Forgives-review.html] brought out the maximalist in Martinez, whose inspiration ran the gamut from vintage Hollywood sounds to traditional Polynesian instrumentation. Gaudy and volatile, it's a refreshing change of pace from his conventional atmospherics.

The Knick (2014)

A lesser composer would have tried to match Soderbergh's visceral new television series by going for the jugular. Martinez, however, does right by not competing with the gore, opting for a subtly sinister sound. 1900 never sounded so new-age.

Drive – complete with Lowe's new soundtrack – will be broadcast on October 30 at 10pm on BBC Three.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141030eaau004ms


NEWS
Ebola nurse Kaci Hickox faces quarantine order
By David Millward US Correspondent Maine
596 words
29 October 2014
05:53 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Barack Obama calls for Americans to react to Ebola with common sense rather than hysteria, as Maine nurse prepares to fight moves to force her into quarantine

President Barack Obama threw his weight behind American health care workers who have fought the Ebola virus in Africa as one nurse was preparing to fight moves to force her into quarantine in her own state.

Mr Obama's remarks came as Kaci Hickox, who worked in Sierra Leone, moved closer to a confrontation with Paul LePage, the governor of Maine, whose health officials said they will seek a court order to confine her to her home in the small town of Fort Kent.

Ms Hickox in turn has said she is ready to fight any move in the courts.

The announcement that Maine's public health officials will take legal action to enforce a quarantine order came barely an hour after the US president called for Americans to react with common sense rather than hysteria.

Speaking in the White House and flanked by doctors and nurses who had worked at Ebola-hit countries in West Africa, President Obama hailed the work they had done.

“They represent citizenship, patriotism and public service at its best,” he said. “When they come home, they deserve to be treated properly like the heroes that they are.”

Many will see the President’s remarks as a pointed vote of confidence for Ms Hickox, especially with the White House opposing the compulsory quarantine restrictions being imposed by a number of states.

He said: “If we discourage our health workers who are prepared to make these sacrifices from travelling to countries where they are needed, then we are not doing the job of protecting our people.”

In Maine meanwhile, Ms Hickox remained defiant having returned to her home on Monday after New Jersey officials, facing the threat of legal action, reluctantly released her from quarantine.

Earlier in the day Mr LePage, Maine's Republican governor, signalled he was ready to act to force Ms Hickox, 33, to remain in quarantine for 21 days.

“We hoped that the health care worker would voluntarily comply with these protocols, but this individual has stated publicly she will not abide by the protocols,” Mr LePage said.

“We are very concerned about her safety and health and that of the community.

“We are exploring all of our options for protecting the health and well-being of the health care worker, anyone who comes in contact with her, the Fort Kent community and all of Maine.”

Police officers have been stationed outside her home which she shares with her boyfriend in Fort Kent.

However Tom Pelletier, the local police chief, said the officer had been deployed for the nurse's own safety amid fears of a backlash against her. A Facebook page has already been set up by one group opposing Ms Hickox’s return to her home state. It has attracted more than 1,100 “likes”.

Ms Hickox had been quarantined following her return from Sierra Leone, after a thermometer showed she had a slight temperature on her arrival at Newark Liberty airport.

Having secured her freedom and following successive tests declaring that she was free of the Ebola virus, Ms Hickox signalled her defiance in an interview with NBC.

“I remain appalled by these home quarantine policies that have been forced upon me, even though I am in perfectly good health and feeling strong and have been this entire time completely symptom-free,” she said.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141029eaat005ei


'Sexy' Ebola suits and bloodied cheerleaders: Fancy dress to avoid this Halloween
By Radhika Sanghani
731 words
29 October 2014
07:20 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Halloween is here again, and so are the tasteless costumes that are guaranteed to offend countless people. Radhika Sanghani lists the worst

Halloween means fancy dress. And with fancy dress can come controversy. We’ve seen it with Prince Harry and his ill-thought out Nazi uniform, students dressing up as murder victims, and two girls posing in their homemade Twin Towers costumes[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/newstopics/howaboutthat/10429642/Anger-after-women-in-911-Twin-Towers-fancy-dress-win-Halloween-costume-contest.html] .

Tasteless outfits have long been cropping up and this Halloween is no exception.

So here are the worst costumes available this year.

1) Sexy Ebola containment suit

Yes, really. Think hazmat outfit complete with breathing mask, blue latex gloves and an Ebola face shield.

“As the deadly Ebola virus trickles its way through the United States, fighting its disease is no reason to compromise style,” reads the Brands On Sale [http://www.brandsonsale.com/sexy-costumes-2015.html] website.

“The short dress and chic gas mask will be the talk of Milan, London, Paris, and New York as the world's fashionistas seek global solutions to hazmat couture.”

But it isn’t just for women – there’s also a sexy male version, because: “ending plague isn't the endeavor of a single woman.”

2) Bloodstained cheerleader

Asda has come under fire for selling bloodstained cheerleader and American football player costumers, available for children.

It has sparked a petition[https://www.change.org/p/asda-bloodstained-american-cheerleader-footballer-halloween-costumes-immediately-withdraw-bloodstained-american-teen-costumes?utm_medium=email&utm_source=victory_fund&utm_campaign=new_victory_funds_notification], with mum Sheila Pinney writing: “I was actually left speechless when I saw the costumes, while seeking a suitable fancy dress costume for my 4-year old son.

“He asked me what the costumes were, as he is familiar with ghosts, skeletons and the usual Halloween imagery, and I actually couldn't form the words to explain what they were, as how can you tell a 4-year old that he is looking at costumes depicting 'shot teenagers'?”

Not all shoppers agree – the girl’s version is sold out on the website[http://direct.asda.com/george/girls/fancy-dress/halloween-cheerleader-fancy-dress-costume/GEM306451,default,pd.html] .

3) Ray and Janay Rice

American footballer Ray Rice was suspended by the NFL [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/women/womens-life/11087329/WhyIStayed-Twitter-hashtag-highlights-real-reasons-women-stay-with-violent-partners.html] for viciously punching and knocking unconscious his then-fiancee (now wife) Janay Palmer. He dragged her body from a casino lift and along the ground.

It was incredibly shocking. But, for some, it's clearly perfect Halloween costume fodder. One outfit offers men a Rice football jersey and a blowup doll to drag along the floor, meant to represent his wife.

Other social media users have had the same idea, but have found a real-life woman to paint the bruises on. One child has even been photographed dragging a ‘Janay’ doll ahead of fright night on Friday.

It’s little surprise that Janay has tweeted: “It’s sad, that my suffering amuses others.”

4) Mental health patients

This isn’t the first time such a costume has cropped up, but aUK website has come under fire[http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-berkshire-29718923] for selling an ‘Adult Skitzo Costume’ as well as a general ‘psycho ward’ outfit.

The orange jumpsuits include shackles and restraining face masks, and are being sold by Jokers’ Masquerade[http://www.joke.co.uk/] .

But you may not be able to buy them soon. Health minister Norman Lamb has made it his mission to find out whether they can be banned, because they ‘reinforce stereotypes’.

5) Jimmy Savile

Want to offend sexual assault victims? Dying to make light of incredibly serious allegations? You can now dress up like Jimmy Savile for just £23.99 - complete with a gold medallian, toy cigar and round, coloured glasses (the colour may vary).

We wouldn't recommend buying this utterly tasteless outfit from Joke.com[http://www.joke.co.uk/jimmy-savile-accessory-kit~66453/]

6) A sexy Muslim girl

You may have thought there was nothing more offensive than 'blacking up', but you'd be wrong.

You can now buy a "sexy burka Middle Eastern Arab girl costume" for Halloween.

It's on sale at aliexpress.com[http://www.aliexpress.com/item/Sexy-Burka-Middle-Eastern-Arab-Girl-Costume-Sexy-Halloween-Fancy-Dress-Costume-Lingerie-NC340/1644387279.html] and consists of a short black dress with a plunging neckline. It also comes with a veil decorated with gold coins.

7) A 'groping' granny

"This old bag is ready for some action," according to spirithalloween.com[http://www.spirithalloween.com/product/fw-groppin-granny-adult-std/] ."Scare the mailman and the neighbors in this hilarious Gropin' Granny character adult mens costume. Flash them and see who looks twice. Better remind granny to keep her housecoat closed!"

In other words, you can dress up as an older woman, with a pair of drooping breasts and a merkin.

Not the sort of costume you'd want your real grandma to see.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141029eaat002p9


The right talent in the right place
By Debi O'Donovan
403 words
29 October 2014
07:10 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The Forum for Expatriate Management is honouring the hard-working people in companies who ensure expat assignments are a success

To many, the life of an expatriate sounds glamorous. Jetting off to exotic destinations has its appeals until "exotic" turns out to be the back of beyond, where local laws ban your favoured leisure activities and your social life is restricted to a small group of fellow expatriates.

The days of senior executives on fat expat reward packages travelling the world for decades are in decline. But the expatriate assignment is still very much alive and kicking – especially in an increasingly globalised world.

Long-term assignments still dominate. The Managing the Global Mobility Function 2014 report (published last month by the Forum for Expatriate Management) found that 51 per cent of assignments are still long term.

However, short-term assignments are becoming more common. The FEM report found that 20 per cent of assignments are short term (commonly defined as three to 12 months), while 5 per cent are commuter assignments and 6 per cent are business trips.

Sometimes employers find it works better to send several employees, one after the other, on six-month assignments rather than to try to find someone willing to uproot themselves and their family for a few years.

We are also seeing the ongoing rise of business travellers, who often spend more time outside their home country than in it. And another trend is junior staff working in a different country as career development.

There is an entire industry of global mobility professionals and their advisers who prevent staff getting into trouble over visas and who help ensure an employee knows how much tax to file and where.

These hardy, but sympathetic, souls are the ones who face having expatriate staff in Ebola-stricken areas, or have to pick up the pieces when expats drink too much in countries where alcohol is illegal.

They are vital to manage compliance (to prevent tax fines and deportations), to support the assignee so the assignment is a success, and to help get the right talent to the right place quickly.

In recognition of their efforts FEM runs the European Expatriate Management and Mobility Awards and the shortlist is now available at http://bit.ly/1ohuLsN[http://bit.ly/1ohuLsN] . The winners will be announced at a gala dinner in London on November 7.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141029eaat002sa


CULTURE
Now I know why my father wouldn’t talk about the First World War
By Gillian Reynolds
828 words
29 October 2014
03:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
In the BBC's blanket coverage of the First World War, Gillian Reynolds found some remarkable voices

More is not necessarily better. I like Dylan Thomas but I have had enough of the BBC endlessly commemorating the centenary of his birth. Worst moment? Monday afternoon’s ghastly play on Radio 4, The City of Tomorrow, supposedly resembling Thomas’s Under Milk Wood, actually more akin to a Lynda Snell village hall production in The Archers. Best moment? The World Tonight, also on Monday, quietly closing a sombre edition (the withdrawal of British troops from Afghanistan, Ebola) with Thomas reading Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night.

I feel totally swamped by the current BBC year marking the First World War[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/history/world-war-one/] . Maybe that’s because my mother’s father, Private Percy Kelly, was killed in it and my own father (born 1897), alongside his brothers, fought in it, was taken prisoner of war, escaped, was taken prisoner again and, when we were little, would only ever talk about how he organised the prison football team. Every year since, as radio unlocks the national memory for Remembrance Sunday, I understand better why that’s all he would tell us.

So I inched nervously towards Voices of the First World War (Radio 4, daily, all this week and next). This is a major collaboration between the Imperial War Museum and BBC radio, drawing on the archives of both to construct an aural chronicle of the four-year war as it unfolded, 15-minute episodes of history told in the voices of men who lived it. The narrator is Dan Snow, presumably chosen because he is young. It can’t be for his voice or his prose style, neither of which is remarkable. The voices in the programmes most definitely are.

Shakespeare and many a playwright since have vividly dramatised how soldiers talk. Here they speak for themselves, remembering medicals, uniforms, journeys to the battle front. One spoke of how slowly the train moved, how near the ripe peaches on nearby trees seemed, so near he walked down the outside of the train, got off, exchanged his cap badge for two peaches then got back on the train and went on to the front. It was as vivid as a photograph, probably because he was remembering himself when young, before reality grew grimmer. The Imperial War Museum’s sound archivist, Peter Hart, said the big problem is trying to capture memories of actual battle. The mind goes into shock, he said, blocking things out, recollections becoming impressionistic. Full marks to the production team for giving us more than just voices here, for adding proportion and depth to the drama of real lives recollected.

Across the Board (Radio 4, daily at noon) is a chess match between Dominic Lawson and five chosen opponents. They play and talk, a Grandmaster commentator occasionally chipping in to say what is on the board, how the match is going. On Monday Lawson took on the best player in the world, possibly ever, Magnus Carlsen, aged 23, who also models clothes, plays football and, although he says he can’t explain why, is “just very good at what I do”. Lawson’s deft questions didn’t put Carlsen off his game. Instead, when he asked whether Carlsen should apply his mind to something more socially useful, it was Lawson’s moves that suffered. According to the commentator, that is. For all I know about chess they might as well be walking on the Moon. But when was the last time you heard a clever chap taking on opponents he knows are likely to hammer him? Irresistible.

52 First Impressions with David Quantick (Radio 4, Thursday nights) is a lovely programme. Quantick has written scripts for all sorts of people (including himself, Harry Hill and John Cleese) and articles for New Musical Express that brought him into close proximity with many a living legend (David Bowie, Fidel Castro, Her Majesty, the Queen). This show is a sort of standup cabaret as he talks to an audience about who, where, when, etc and at the end they can ask a question or two. But what makes it so unusual is, first, a kind of rueful benevolence shining through it all (memories of his dad, of his parents giving him an LP of The Gondoliers instead of the Beatles one he asked for, of his old pal Simon, of his passion for The Goon Show and reverence for Graeme Garden).

Alongside that do note the intense detail of his observation (Fidel Castro wearing army fatigues made of shimmering silk, the faces of rock band Kiss without their stage masks, “like four Weetabix after a fight”). This week he recalls Tom Jones, Morrissey and Phyllis Pearsall, the astonishing woman who invented the London A-Z. I bet he likes her more than Morrissey.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141029eaat001bd


News
I am so grateful to be well, says second US nurse to survive Ebola
Raf Sanchez
328 words
29 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
15
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
THE second of two US nurses infected with Ebola has been released from hospital in what President Barack Obama hailed as a sign that the virus can be contained and "will be defeated".

AmberVinson caught the disease while treating a Liberian patient, Thomas Eric Duncan, in a Texas hospital and her infection caused fears of an imminent Ebola outbreak in the US. She and another nurse, Nina Pham, were successfully treated.

"I'm so grateful to be well," Ms Vinson, 29, said at Emory University Hospital in Georgia. "God's love has truly carried me and my family through this difficult time."

Mr Obama spoke to Ms Vinson shortly before she was discharged and told reporters that she was "doing well".

The president used the successful treatment as an opportunity to reassure an American public rattled by the US government's shaky initial response to the virus. "Of the seven Americans treated for Ebola so far, all have survived," Mr Obama said.

Craig Spencer, a New York doctor who contracted the disease while treating Ebola patients in Guinea, West Africa, is now the only American known to have the disease. He is in a serious but stable condition at a Manhattan hospital.

"This disease can be contained," Mr Obama said. "It will be defeated. Progress is possible, but we're going to have to stay vigilant and we've got to make sure that we're working together." The president also took a veiled shot at the governors of New York, New Jersey and Illinois, who have imposed 21–day quarantines on health workers returning from West Africa, despite the White House's insistence that such practice is unnecessary.

The states insist that such measures are needed to prevent any spread of the virus, but the White House and public health experts have warned it will discourage volunteers from going abroad.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141029eaat00061


TRAVEL
'Al-Qaeda ' Wi-Fi connection delays plane
By Natalie Paris
293 words
28 October 2014
02:55 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A plane was delayed for 17 hours because a passenger spotted a Wi-Fi network connection named after a terror group when attempting to log on to the internet

The plane, an American Airlines flight bound for London, turned back to the gate in Los Angeles when the hotspot, entitled “Al-Quida Free Terror Nettwork” (sic), was spotted in a list of available connections. The passenger notified a flight attendant while the plane was taxiing.

Flight 136 had been due to take off this past Sunday at 8pm but was held in LAX for three hours while passengers were told to turn off their electronic devices, ABC 7, an American news network, reports [http://abc7.com/news/lax-flight-delayed-after-wifi-hotspot-name-prompts-concerns/367110/] .

Passengers were initially told that the delay was down to a maintenance issue rather than the discovery of the Wi-Fi network. The plane ended up being rescheduled for Monday at 1pm, with some passengers having to stay overnight in LA before they could board the next available flight.

"After an hour, (the captain) said there was a security threat and that we didn't have clearance to take off," Elliot Del Pra, a passenger, told ABC 7.

The flight was taken back to the gate and delayed until 1pm on Monday.

The Los Angeles airport police said on Monday that "no crime was committed and no further action will be taken."

An American passenger caused his fellow fliers to be detained on board a flight from Philadelphia to the Dominican Republic for an extra two hours earlier this month, after he shouted “I have Ebola!” and had been sneezing and coughing during the flight. He was removed by people in protective suits while a passenger filmed the incident [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/travelvideo/11153395/Ebola-hoax-causes-scare-on-US-Airways-flight.html] .

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141028eaas003jt


© 2015 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.	
 