
Factiva
Dow Jones
News
New Jersey frees nurse in Ebola quarantine after outcry
Rosa Prince; Nick Squires
499 words
28 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
14
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A NURSE who threatened to sue after being forced into quarantine when she returned from treating Ebola patients in Africa has been allowed to go home, amid growing confusion among US offi–cials over the best way to handle such cases.

In an apparent reversal, Chris Christie, the governor of New Jersey, agreed to let Kaci Hickox leave the hospital isolation ward where she has been held since Friday, despite testing negative for the virus.

He insisted that a quarantine order for all medical staff returning from treating Ebola victims in West Africa should remain in place.

Miss Hickox was due to be taken to her home in Maine, where a rigid quarantine order has not been imposed and where travellers from the three nations at the centre of the Ebola epidemic – Guinea, Sierra Leone, and Liberia – must monitor themselves for signs of infection.

The Texas–trained nurse was put in quarantine after flying into New Jersey's Newark airport on her way back from Sierra Leone, where she had cared for children dying from the virus.

Her arrival coincided with the imposition of the strict quarantine measures in New Jersey and neighbouring New York.

They were introduced in response to the case of a doctor who tested positive for the disease five days after returning to his home in Manhattan from treating Ebola victims in Guinea. Dr Craig Spencer remains in a serious but stable condition at New York's Bellevue hospital. Miss Hickox claimed her human rights had been abused and that she was being treated like a "criminal". On Sunday she hired a leading human rights lawyer to challenge the quarantine order.

Amid a growing outcry over her treatment, with critics suggesting the strict quarantine was counterproductive, New York loosened its quarantine measures.

Mr Christie stood by the measures, which remain in place in New Jersey, and said Miss Hickox was only being released because she had been symptom–free for 24 hours after testing negative.

Tests were also being carried out on a five–year–old boy in New York who developed symptoms consistent with Ebola soon after returning from Guinea.

A dozen American soldiers returning from working in West Africa have been placed in isolation for up to 21 days at a US military base in Italy, as a precaution to prevent the potential spread of Ebola.

"Out of an abundance of caution, the army directed a small number of personnel, about a dozen, that recently returned to Italy, to be monitored in a separate location at their home station of Vicenza," said Col Steven Warren, a spokesman for the Pentagon.

If any soldiers show symptoms of the disease, they will be placed in an isolation ward in Vicenza's San Bortolo hospital.

Dozens more troops will be isolated in the coming days as they leave West Africa, where the US has been building infrastructure to help treat Ebola victims.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141028eaas0005g


NEWS
Obama says Ebola 'will be defeated' as second infected nurse released from hospital
By Raf Sanchez Washington
411 words
28 October 2014
04:34 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Nurse Amber Vinson released from hospital after undergoing Ebola treatment, as President Barack Obama says the disease can be contained

The second of two US[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/] nurses infected with Ebola has been released from hospital in what President Barack Obama[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/barackobama/] hailed as a sign the virus can be contained and "will be defeated".

Amber Vinson caught the disease while treating a Liberian man in a Texas hospital and her infection sparked fears of an imminent Ebola outbreak[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] in the United States.

She and another nurse, Nina Pham, were successfully treated at state-of-the-art facilities and both have now walked out of hospital.

"I'm so grateful to be well," the 29-year-old said at Emory University Hospital in Georgia. "God's love has truly carried me and my family through this difficult time,"

Mr Obama spoke to Ms Vinson shortly before she was discharged and told reporters she was "doing well".

The President used her successful treatment as an opportunity to reassure an American public rattled by the US government's shaky initial response to the virus.

"Of the seven Americans treated for Ebola so far, all have survived," Mr Obama said.

Craig Spencer, a New York doctor who contracted the disease while treating Ebola patients in Guinea, is the only American known to have the disease. He is in serious but stable condition at a Manhattan hospital.

"This disease can be contained," Mr Obama said. "It will be defeated. Progress is possible, but we’re going to have to stay vigilant and we’ve got to make sure that we’re working together."

The President also took a veiled shot at the governors of New York, New Jersey and Illinois, who have imposed 21-day quarantines on health workers returning from west Africa, despite the White House's insistence that such quarantines are unnecessary.

The states insist that such measures are needed to prevent any spread of the virus in the US but the White House and public health experts have warned it will discourage volunteers from going abroad to fight the disease.

Mr Obama described the American volunteers as "doing God's work".

"We don’t want to discourage our health care workers from going to the front lines," he said. "If they are successful, then we’re not going to have to worry about Ebola here at home."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141028eaas005hb


TRAVEL
Ebola: when your travel insurer will and won't pay
By Sophie Christie
588 words
28 October 2014
01:18 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The Ebola virus is rampaging through parts of Africa, and there have been cases in western Europe and the US – but insurers won't always pay up if your travel is affected by the outbreak

Ebola – the deadly virus that has killed almost 5,000 people – doesn't appear to be subsiding.

The west African countries of Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea have been worst affected by the virus, but last month the first case of Ebola outside Africa was reported when a Spanish nurse contracted the disease[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11173342/Ebola-Spanish-nurse-tests-negative-for-virus.html] while treating two patients who had travelled from Liberia at a Madrid hospital.

More recently, two American nurses working in a Dallas hospital were diagnosed with the disease after treating Thomas Eric Duncan, the Liberian man who brought the virus to America and died last month.

On Friday, Craig Spencer, a doctor returning to the US from West Africa, tested positive for the Ebola virus[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11184292/New-York-doctor-becomes-fourth-to-be-diagnosed-with-Ebola-in-US.html], becoming the fourth person in America to have contracted the disease.

Because both Mr Duncan and Dr Spencer had travelled on a commercial flight to the US, travellers are becoming more concerned about air travel, particularly to and from Africa, prompting some to cancel their flights.

So if you did abandon your holiday as a result of Ebola, would your travel insurer pay up?

Disinclination to travel is not covered under travel insurance, said Graeme Trudgill of the British Insurance Brokers' Association. "However, if the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) states that your destination is unsafe and that you should leave the area, we would expect your travel insurance to cover you," he added.

If a holiday or trip is booked after an FCO declaration advising against travel to affected countries, this would render invalid a travel insurance claim for cancellation. If it was booked before, and you no longer want to travel, you would be covered. It could be that the travel insurer will just refund the cost of the flight, or change the destination.

Currently, the FCO advises against all but essential travel to Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea.

What if your travels were disrupted by Ebola – if your flight to an affected area has been cancelled, for example?

If the airline has cancelled, it should compensate you or make alternative arrangements, Mr Trudgill said. Alternatively, your travel insurance should cover you provided that when you booked the travel there were no warnings against travelling to the destination.

Bob Atkinson of TravelSupermarket.com said: "If your flight is affected then your airline will have to deal with you under its terms and conditions. If the flight is from an EU country or operated by an EU airline it would have to follow EU261 rules for cancellation and compensation as appropriate.

"Any additional money ‘lost’ as a result of cancellation could be claimed for if your travel insurance supports the cancellation of these items and the claiming back of irrevocable losses."

More seriously, if you were to contract the disease while abroad, what would happen?

Your travel insurance will cover medical costs and repatriation in full, subject to your excess, as long as you haven’t travelled against FCO advice.

So, if you contracted the disease in Sierra Leone, Guinea or Liberia you would not be insured, but should you get it in the US or Europe, you would have cover.

Video: Ebola explained in 60 seconds

>> The best of Telegraph Money once a week: sign up to our newsletter[http://pages.email.telegraph.co.uk/personalfinancesignup/]

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141028eaas0048y


TECH
How to kiss: the most Googled questions
By Rhiannon Williams
547 words
28 October 2014
08:52 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
From how to translate 'I love you' to searching tips on how to kiss, mobile users are increasingly turning to Google for the answers to their romantic dilemmas

How do you kiss? How do you say 'I love you in French'? These innocuously simple queries are among the most commonly Googled questions in Britain, as web users seek romantic advice where once they might have scoured agony aunt columns or asked a sage friend.

More than a quarter of 16 to 24-year olds search the internet for dating tips, while more than a third (34 per cent) have used it to research interesting topics before a date, according to new research commissioned by Google.

While it's hardly news that more of us than ever are using our mobiles and tablets to look up information - a quarter of the 2,138 respondents admitted to Googling while on the toilet - our increasing reliance on the internet to provide the answers to our romantic quandaries is faintly depressing.

Google's first results page for 'How to kiss' includes a YouTube video on how to kiss a stranger in 10 seconds, 'naughty tips and juicy secrets on how to kiss' from Cosmopolitan and an explanation on how to deal with a bad kisser from 'a guy who loves kissing'. The prevalence of such content aimed squarely at young girls is, some might argue, a demonstration of the failure to adequately teach pre-teens the ins and outs of early courtship - or, conversely, illustrates how the internet is a treasure trove of information for topics you might be too embarrassed to ask a fellow human.

But it's not just our love lives that trigger burning questions to Google - behind how to kiss, how to draw, crochet and knit are among the top 10 searches under 'how to'. There has been a resurgence of interest in traditional crafts in recent years, attributed to the recession as people sought out cheap and cheerful hobbies.

Britons have also used Google throughout 2014 to keep abreast of world events, with this summer's Ice Bucket Challenge driving many to seek out the meaning of ALS (Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, more commonly known in the UK as motor neurone disease (MND). The current Ebola crisis caused the disease to register as the second most common 'what is...' search term.

Getting directions and checking the weather forecast were also extremely popular terms, alongside searching for information on places we are about to visit. But while 'I love you' was the most-Googled foreign translation phrase, the list wouldn't be complete without the dismissive 'shut up' to keep things on an even keel.

The top questions Britons have Googled throughout 2014:

How to...

1. Kiss

2. Draw

3. Crochet

4. Meditate

5. Knit

6. Twerk

7. Pronounce

8. Squat

9. Revise

10. Contour

What is...

1. ALS

2. Ebola

3. Love

4. Fracking

5. Gluten

6. Autism

7. Lupus

8. FGM

9. Anxiety

10. Instagram

Top mobile translations:

1. I love you

2. Thank you

3. How are you?

4. Good morning

5. Happy birthday

6. Can you ask your friend...

7. Glass of wine

8. Good luck

9. Shut up

10. My name is...

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141028eaas003bh


CULTURE
Annie Lennox interview: 'I'm too happy to write songs'
By Neil McCormick
1251 words
28 October 2014
07:51 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
For her new album, Nostalgia, Annie Lennox is exploring some American classics

Annie Lennox has made an album called Nostalgia, singing jazz and blues[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/music/rockandjazzmusic/]standards. "I never really heard this music growing up," the Scotswoman admits. "Jazz would have probably been too sophisticated for our house. I've been influenced by folk, classical, r&b, all the Sixties music that I heard on the radio, but some of these songs I never knew 'til I found them for myself on YouTube."

At 59 years old, after a life at the front line of modern pop[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/music/rockandpopmusic/], it is as if Lennox is experiencing nostalgia for an age before she was born.

"Life is very speeded up," she agrees. "As much as I love the internet and instant downloading, I also sometimes just get exhausted, really exhausted, by the rate of change and the amount of information. So there's a little part of me that's nostalgic for a slower pace of life. When I listen to this music, the beauty of the melodies, the pace of the rhythm, the depth of the thought seems to slow everything down."

There are, of course, two sides to nostalgia: a feeling of sweet remembrance tied to the sadness of loss. It is this quality that her intense versions of classics of the American Songbook such as Georgia On My Mind dig away at, centred on her piano playing and distinctive voice.

"What I responded to is the blues root, that's where I resonate from. Everything I've ever sung, with very few exceptions, has been about the duality of life, the beauty, the darkness, and how that coexists, and how we get through those experiences in our daily existence. It's hard. But music is a balm, it articulates emotion."

Lennox has notched up album sales of over 80 million worldwide, originally as an electro diva with Dave Stewart in Eurythmics, and latterly as a solo artist, with Grammys, Ivor Novellos and even an Academy Award to her credit. The last album to feature her own original material, however, was 2007's Songs of Mass Destruction.

"I stopped writing because I was too happy," she announces. She credits her third husband, South African gynaecologist Dr Mitch Besser, with this new found equanimity. "There's a part of me that feels quite complete and doesn't need to go and express myself."

The couple married in 2012, after meeting doing charitable work with HIV–positive mothers in Africa. "A lot of musicians are sensitive souls and not always terribly happy and I do tend to swing a little bit like that. Misery is a great catalyst for some very strong music but you don't really want to live there 24/7. I certainly don't. I'd rather not be successful and happy, than be super successful and absolutely miserable."

She laughs when I ask if she has to be unhappy to create. "I don't know what triggered me to write in the first place. It's a kind of combustion between your internal and external worlds. I guess all artists are trying to express something, connect with others and in some way feel a vindication or actualisation. But I never actually felt that I was really resolving anything through writing music."

Has she done therapy?

"If you want to come to terms with your inner world, you need to do some work, you need to go a bit deeper. I'm not prescribing therapy for everybody but it can be a helpful tool to get some insight into your patterns and behaviour. Music is wonderful, but it isn't just the soothing balm that makes everything better."

She still feels the need to sing, thankfully.

"It's a very wonderful thing, it's intimate, it's personal, it's liberating. I love singing, I always did, whether somebody was listening or not." And she argues that singing other people's songs can be just as creative as writing her own. "If it's a great song, it's there to be explored. You have to kind of recreate it in your own way. That's what interpretation is. It's not something on the surface. For me it's deep, it's really, really deep. I found myself crying so many times."

Despite appearing a strong woman, there is something just under the surface with Lennox, not exactly a fragility, more an intense sensitivity. She laughs gaily, but can become so intense when talking that she seems close to tears.

Describing the connection she made to the Billie Holiday[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/culturepicturegalleries/9617952/30-key-blues-musicians-in-pictures.html?frame=2373046] ballad Strange Fruit, which evokes violent racism, Lennox says, "I carry anguish within me, I'm not faking it. You know, I've seen things in my life that have been so distressing, so to have a vehicle to pour my feelings into, it's a release."

Lennox spends a great deal of time working to raise funds and awareness for women and children affected by HIV. It has clearly taken her to some dark places. "When you're living in abject poverty it just seems like you get everything thrown at you and more. Of course, Ebola had to be in Africa, some remote shanty–town or godforsaken place where people already have enough to cope with. God! The world is sometimes unspeakably cruel. I can't be oblivious to it. And I try in my own microscopic way to contribute to change but it hurts, it always hurts."

She dismisses her fame with surprising vehemence as something "ridiculous, absurd, a nonsense!" She became a pop star in "more innocent times" before the invasiveness of the internet, which, she says, has turned fame into "a kind of currency everyone wants to trade in. Fame for what? Fame for breathing. Fame for your hairstyle. I never wanted that. But I was very ambitious to make music that I thought was worth listening to."

Although Lennox and Stewart performed one song as a duo this year at a Beatles tribute concert, she says of Eurythmics, "I think it's done, it's over. It's been a long time. There's always been a musical chemistry between us but finding out if I could be autonomous was the next stage in my development, and it's hard to go back. I like to be free."

She has hinted that Nostalgia might be her swan song but laughs it off now, saying she always feels like that after finishing an album. She is resisting pressure to tour, however.

"I'm almost 60 and I know how arduous it is to be on the road. As a singer, you are your instrument. The vocal cords are quite robust but they are also prone to damage and that's all you have. Psychologically it's so demanding, night after night, everybody expects you to be extraordinary. I've been in all sorts of circumstances where I've kind of had to battle through, and it was tough, it was scary, and the more you think about it, the tighter your throat gets.

"I like the studio because it's so intimate and you are transported by the songs. Doing a live performance you are transporting other people. It's different. There's a kind of communion and the vehicle is the song."

Annie Lennox: Nostalgia is out now on Island Records

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141028eaas002xn


FINANCE
UBS sets aside over £1bn for legal charges
By Ben Wright Senior City Editor
420 words
28 October 2014
04:13 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Switzerland's largest banks warns shareholders legal costs will remain "at elevated levels" for the "forseeable future" while also delivering a gloomy prognosis for the global economy

UBS, Switzerland's largest bank, has had to set aside Sfr1.84bn (or £1.2bn) in legal provisions to pay for possible fines and to settle regulatory investigations. It has also warned shareholders that these costs are likely to be "at elevated levels" for the "forseeable future".

The Swiss lender is currently in discussions with US regulators about a criminal investigation into the alleged rigging of currency benchmarks and with the French authorities into allegations that UBS helped some wealthy clients to avoid tax.

Last month, UBS said that it was looking to settle the foreign exchange investigation but provided scant details. Settlement discussion with French regulators fell apart in July and the Swiss bank remains embroiled in a legal fight. Most of the legal provisions were booked in UBS's investment bank.

Despite having to set aside legal reserves, UBS produced solid results with net income in the quarter rising 32pc to Sfr762m from Sfr577m over the same period a year ago. However, the results were helped by UBS booking a Sfr1.3bn net tax gain.

Sergio Ermotti, the chief executive of UBS, said: "I am very pleased with our underlying performance for the quarter, which again demonstrates the strength of our franchise. At the same time, we are actively addressing litigation and regulatory matters."

In a statement, the Swiss bank said it is exposed to "a number of significant claims and regulatory matters" and expects charges associated with litigation, regulatory and similar matters to "remain at elevated levels through 2014".

The bank added: "At this point in time, we believe that the industry continues to operate in an environment where charges associated with litigation, regulatory and similar matters will remain elevated for the foreseeable future."

UBS also delievered a somewhat gloomy prognosis for the global economy, saying that many of the underlying challenges and geopolitical issues it has previously highlighted remain and in some cases have intensified. Indeed, UBS said that "a number of new concerns have arisen including fear of risks related to the Ebola virus".

It continued: "The mixed outlook for global growth, the absence of sustained and credible improvements to unresolved issues in Europe, continuing US fiscal and monetary policy issues and increasing geopolitical instability would make improvements in prevailing market conditions unlikely."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141028eaas001gw


Business
Cheers for BSkyB with hopes Italian match could cap content costs
Ben Martin
926 words
28 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
7
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Market report

BSKYB has not yet closed its planned takeover of Sky Italia and Sky Deutschland but some in the City are already looking ahead to its next deal.

Shares in the pay–television company rose 6p to 867½p – outperforming a FTSE 100 that lost ground – after analysts at Bernstein told investors BSkyB could cap its content spending by merging Sky Italia with Mediaset Premium.

Premium, the pay–TV business of Silvio Berlusconi–controlled Italian broadcaster Mediaset, competes with Sky Italia for the rights to show domestic and Champions League football. BSkyB is already embroiled in an expensive rivalry with BT over English football rights. A merger of Sky Italia and Premium would be "attractive" for the FTSE 100 group as it would help it rein in expenditure, the Bernstein analysts said.

A deal "would likely cap the rise in content spending", they said. "Football costs will rise by about 12pc for both Serie A and Champions League in the next contract cycle which starts in 2015, rising to almost 36pc of total [Italian] pay TV industry revenues, a level which both companies must view as unsustainable."

Still, valuation is likely to be an issue, the analysts added. Spanish group Telefonica bought an 11pc stake in Premium in July in a deal that valued the business at €900m (£709m) and Mediaset is likely to demand a price "as close as possible" to that figure.

Nevertheless, the "strategic benefits of consolidation … could possibly justify an aggressive Sky offer", they concluded. More immediately, however, BSkyB must finish its acquisition of Sky Italia and move to take control of Sky Deutschland. The deal is slated to complete next month.

Meanwhile, Smith & Nephew, 3½p easier at 978p, remained a source of bid speculation yesterday, with analysts at UBS floating the idea of a three–way deal less than a week after Barclays advised clients the artificial hip–maker could merge with a US rival.

American group Stryker, a peer to Smith & Nephew in the orthopaedic sector that is widely regarded as the most likely suitor for the FTSE 100 company, could make a bid along with Danish group Coloplast, the UBS analysts suggested. While Smith & Nephew's wound care division would not fit with Stryker's business model, Coloplast, a maker of medical products including injury dressings, could afford to spend up to $6bn (£3.7bn) on the unit, they said.

More concrete deal news sent Salamander Energy surging 13¼p, or 16.5pc, to 93½p, with investors excited about the prospect of a bidding battle for the south–east Asia–focused oil explorer. Ophir Energy has made a takeover proposal, while a consortium led by Spanish group Compania Espanola de Petroleos and Jynwel Capital has also made an approach.

Ophir investors, rattled by the possibility a rival suitor might force it to pay over the odds for Salamander, sent the shares down 12.7p to 190p. It did not help that Liberum analyst Andrew Whittock reckoned it was "difficult to see where this combination would create significant value". Sentiment towards the broader oil and gas sector was also dented by WTI crude dipping below $80 a barrel.

Staying with the fallers, Lloyds Banking Group lost 1.38p to 75.34p, unsettled by the results of the European stress tests on the banking sector that showed the lender had the weakest capital position of Britain's four biggest banks, spurring worries about the resumption of its dividend.

The Bank of England's Prudential Regulation Authority is due to carry out its own assessment of UK lenders later this year and Jefferies analysts told investors that, based on the European results, Lloyds would only "marginally" pass the British test and was now unlikely to make a "material" dividend payment until 2016.

Barclays also slid 4½p to 221.85p and Royal Bank of Scotland declined 5p to 359.2p. The weakness among the lenders pulled the FTSE 100 25.27 points lower to 6,363.46.

Elsewhere among the losers, temporary power supplier Aggreko lost 37p to £14.99, shaken by a profit warning from smaller rival APR Energy, which itself slumped 26p to 370p. A profit alert by Synectics also sent the small–cap surveillance and security technology group plunging 100p to 215p.

Baby products retailer Mothercare slid 6¾p to 172¼p after announcing that, because 5.4pc of its rights issue had not be taken up, the rump was placed at 170p apiece, a 5pc discount to Friday's closing price.

Smiths Group declined 31p to £11.21 after the engineering and technology conglomerate disclosed the departure of Peter Turner, its finance chief who has been in the role since 2010.

But Renishaw shares were chased 76p higher to £16.66 in response to an encouraging trading statement, in which the engineering group said the strong revenue growth it had experienced earlier in its current financial year was continuing into the second half. It was Renishaw's third positive update this month.

Finally, travel–related shares that have been shaken by the spread of Ebola around the globe rebounded. TUI Travel added 9.1p to 374.7p, InterContinental Hotels gained 51p to £22.68 and SSP, which runs food outlets such as Upper Crust and Caffe Ritazza in airports and rail stations, advanced 7p to 244p.

TUI is likely to remain in focus today as shareholders vote on its proposed £5.2bn merger with its Germany parent company.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141028eaas0001r


Features
WAS THIS THE BRITISH ARMY'S LAST HURRAH?
Con Coughlin
1441 words
27 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
19
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
As combat operations in Helmand province are brought to an understated, unsung close, Con Coughlin asks if the Afghan mission marks the end of military interventions for our forces

The contrast between yesterday's low–key military ceremony at Camp Bastion to mark the end of British combat operations in Afghanistan and the way the nation celebrated victory in the Falklands could not be more stark. Back in 1982 the heroics of the victorious soldiers, sailors and airmen who participated in the daring operation to liberate the islands from their Argentine invaders were marked by representatives of the Task Force marching through the centre of London to Guildhall for lunch with Mrs Thatcher and the Lord Mayor, while overhead helicopters and aircraft staged a triumphant fly–past.

By comparison, yesterday's event at Camp Bastion, Britain's main military base in Helmand province for the past eight years, was a more perfunctory affair, with pipers playing as the Union flag was lowered, to be replaced with that of the host nation. And there will be many who will see the manner in which we have marked the end of these two very different conflicts as representing the radical change that has taken place during the past 32 years in our national attitude towards conflict.

Back in 1982 – bar the odd gripe from Left–wingers and leading members of the clergy, who felt that we should relinquish our colonial hold over the Falklands in favour of Argentina – there was nationwide rejoicing at the Task Force's remarkable achievement, and fitting tributes to the 255 British Service personnel who made the ultimate sacrifice during the endeavour.

This extraordinary feat of arms, moreover, is now regarded as marking the moment that ended Britain's post–war decline and placed the nation firmly back on the road to recovery.

But there will be no proud marches through the streets of London or fly–pasts to commemorate the heroic efforts of the tens of thousands of British military personnel who have served in Afghanistan for the past decade or more, in a conflict that has claimed 453 lives – nearly double the number of British war dead in the Falklands. Yesterday's simple ceremony may well be the last time the British public is invited to commemorate the sacrifices – including the thousands who have suffered serious physical and mental injury – of all those who served in that benighted country.

Indeed, such was the Ministry of Defence's determination to keep the official end to operations as understated as possible that initially ministers wanted to carry it out without having any media present, keeping the public entirely in the dark about the conclusion of our vexed involvement in the Afghan mission.

For the reality is that, for all the fanfares that supported Britain's initial military intervention in Afghanistan in the aftermath of the September 11 attacks in 2001, support for our continued participation waned many years ago among the political classes and the public at large – not least because the vast majority of people long ago lost sight of the reasons we had deployed there in the first place.

This confusion was even evident in the MoD's own press release that it issued yesterday to announce the end of combat operations, where it stated that the reason British forces deployed to Helmand in the summer of 2006 as part of the Nato mission was to "tackle a growing insurgency in the region". Well, that was not what John Reid, then defence secretary, said at the time, when he hoped that our peacekeeping effort to help stabilise the Afghan government after decades of conflict could be achieved without a shot being fired in anger.

The failure of our political classes to justify the deployment of British combat forces in order to prevent Afghanistan acting as a safe haven for Islamist terrorists has led to widespread unease about the mission and a general reluctance to accept that they will leave the country a far better place than they found it. It was the same with Iraq, where the furore over the search for weapons of mass destruction completely overshadowed the UK's initial military success and meant that, rather than paying proper tribute to the 179 British fatalities, we stole away from Basra at the end of the campaign like a thief in the night.

Our senior military commanders are not entirely blameless for the numerous shortcomings of these respective missions: the failure to provide adequate force levels and the proper equipment – particularly during the initial phase of the deployment to Helmand – were military, rather than political misjudgments. That said, it is the politicians who are principally responsible for the public's waning appetite for British involvement in any future overseas military interventions.

And it is those same politicians, certainly so far as the Army is concerned, who are now in the process of reducing our military strength to a level where we will soon no longer be able to undertake a military operation on the scale of Iraq and Afghanistan, even if we wanted to.

Cuts to the Army's standing strength as a result of the 2010 Strategic Defence and Security Review have been well–documented, with a reduction from 102,000 to 82,000 – its lowest size since the Napoleonic wars. What is less well understood is the disastrous impact these cuts are having on the Army's ability to replicate the kind of missions it has undertaken in Iraq and Afghanistan.

In those two theatres, the Army was able to deploy at a division strength of around 10,000 and maintain those force levels for as long as was required. These days the Army would be pushed to deploy at half that amount – one combat brigade and not much more – and its ability to maintain those force numbers for any prolonged period of time would depend on the ability of the new reserve force to plug the gaps which, given the current slow pace of recruitment, is a very big ask indeed.

Nor is it just the cuts to the Army's numbers that should concern us. Work is already well under way on the withdrawal of British forces from Germany, where the presence of British heavy armour at a network of military bases liberated from the Nazis at the end of the Second World War has made a vital contribution to the maintenance of peace and stability in post–war Europe.

The need for military deterrence in Europe remains as great as ever, as Russia's recent incursions in Crimea and Ukraine have graphically demonstrated. And yet, so great is the Government's determination to scale down Britain's global status that the withdrawal from our bases on the Rhine is taking place despite the resurgent Russian threat, because cutting the defence budget is considered a far greater national priority than having adequate measures in place to guarantee our security.

Indeed, not content with the drastic savings they have already made to the Army's strength, there were reports yesterday that the Treasury is planning even further cuts. General Lord Richards, the recently retired chief of the defence staff, said this would "make a mockery" of David Cameron's recent pledge to maintain defence spending at its current 2 per cent of GDP if the Conservatives are re–elected next year.

Yet arguably the biggest existential threat to the Army's future lies not with Whitehall bean–counters but with all our political leaders' desire to avoid using ground forces at all costs. For example, ever since the emergence of the Islamic State in Syria and Iraq, politicians have been quick to fall back on the mantra that whatever action is authorised to tackle Islamist extremism, it will not require " boots on the ground".

Indeed, the fact that there are now far more British soldiers deployed in West Africa helping to tackle the Ebola virus than there are conducting more conventional combat operations reflects the politicians' changing priorities on how our military is best employed.

There are many reasons, therefore, to conclude that the lowering of the Union flag at Camp Bastion yesterday will come to symbolise the Army's last hurrah. And that will undoubtedly be the case if our politicians have anything to do with it. But a few words of caution can be offered to all those who believe their obligations to the defence of the realm can be accomplished without resorting to force of arms. Wars have a nasty habit of choosing us, rather than us choosing them.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141027eaar0003w


NEWS
Travellers from Ebola-stricken countries in west Africa to be monitored across US
By Rosa Prince New York
1028 words
27 October 2014
04:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
But how will US authorities cope with tracking nearly 1,000 potential ‘typhoid Marys’ a week

All travellers entering the United States from the Ebola-stricken nations at the heart of the current outbreak in west Africa will be monitored for 21 days under new rules which come into force on Monday.

The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) announced the radical measure last week, in a bid to prevent the nightmare scenario of a victim unknowingly passing the disease on while walking the streets of a US city.

Such an occurrence is known as the “Typhoid Mary” effect, after Mary Mallon, an asymptomatic typhoid sufferer originally from Ireland, who is thought to have passed the disease on to 53 people while working as a cook in New York at the turn of the last century.

She was forcibly placed in quarantine on two occasions and died 1938 having spent three decades in isolation.

Close calls involving Thomas Eric Duncan, the Liberian man who infected two nurses at Dallas Presbyterian Hospital before succumbing to the disease this month, and Dr Craig Spencer, who mixed with the public in New York for five days before developing a fever and reporting to hospital, have led CDC to tighten up the restrictions on those travelling to the US from west Africa.

But what do the new rules entail, who will they affect, and how effective are they likely to be?

Around 150 people a day fly to the United States from Sierra Leone, Guinea and Liberia.

While there are no direct flights from the west African nations at the heart of the outbreak, there are a number of routes into the US via European airports. The CDC had already announced that all those arriving from Sierra Leone, Guinea and Liberia would be required to enter via one of five airports which have introduced enhanced screening procedures, including checks for fever, one of the early signs of Ebola. They are New York’s JFK, Newark Liberty, in New Jersey, Dulles serving Washington DC, O'Hare in Chicago, and Hartsfield-Jackson in Atlanta. The trade group Airlines for America (A4A) says only about nine passengers a day, or six per cent of the total, enter the US via other airports, and airlines have been cooperating in re-routing them to the approved centres.

All those who have travelled from Ebola countries will face 21 days of monitoring

Once they are identified at one of the the five approved airports as having travelled from one of the Ebola-affected countries, travellers will be checked for symptoms. Anyone with a temperature or other sign that they may have the virus will be sent straight into isolation. Those who are asymptomatic will be required to undergo 21 days of “active post-arrival monitoring,” responsibility for which will be taken on by state and local health departments. The three-week self-monitoring period reflects the longest length of time for which a patient has developed symptoms after coming into contact with an affected victim.

The monitoring process:

The CDC will inform states if a traveller from an Ebola-affected nation is due to arrive in their area. If asked, they will provide technical support, funding and advice. Health department officials will be expected to maintain contact with the traveller for 21 days, receiving daily temperature reports and inquiring about the presence or absence of other symptoms associated with Ebola, including a headache, joint and muscle aches, weakness, diarrhea, vomiting, stomach pain, lack of appetite, or abnormal bleeding. As they arrive at the five airports, travellers will be given a “CARE” kit - standing for Check and Report Ebola - including a logbook to keep track of their symptoms, thermometer, a symptom guide and information about who to inform if they have symptoms.

Those who fail to comply will be tracked down

The CDC says immediate steps will be taken to track down a traveller who fails to check in with the local health department on a daily basis. However, officials in New York have already admitted they do not know what they will do if confronted with someone who refuses to comply with the new rules.

Anyone who develops symptoms will be sent straight to quarantine:;

Any traveller who develops symptoms of Ebola during the 21-day isolation period will immediately be isolated and evacuated by a Hazmat team to a hospital in their area which has been designated as an Ebola treatment centre.

Medical workers will be subject to enhanced monitoring in some states

New Jersey, New York, Illinois and Florida announced over the weekend that all health workers who had cared for Ebola patients would be put into mandatory quarantine in hospital. This followed the case of Dr Craig Spencer, who mingled with the public in New York for five days before developing symptoms and ultimately testing positive for Ebola. New York has now revised its rules amid an outcry over the treatment of Kaci Hickox, a nurse who returned from Sierra Leone on Friday via Newark, who complained that she had been treated like a “criminal.” New York now requires medical staff only to remain inside their homes for 21 days and to receive twice-daily visits from local health officials.

Opinion remains divided over whether the new regulations will be sufficient to prevent the spread of Ebola

The CDC is confident that the new rules will be sufficient to protect America from a mass Ebola outbreak. Critics will point out however that the agency also reassured the country that its protocols were rigorousness enough to protect medical staff in Dallas who treated the first patient. to arrive on American soil. Two nurses were infected. and dozens put at risk through direct and indirect contact. Many Republicans continue to call for a ban on all travel from Ebola -affected nations, a stance which Anthony Fauci, head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, has described as counter-productive, as it would be likely to put health care workers off volunteering to help in the Ebola zone.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141027eaar001e2


News
Nurse who treated Ebola victims fights US quarantine order
Rosa Prince
342 words
27 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
14
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A US nurse who says she was treated like a "criminal" after returning from caring for Ebola victims in west Africa has hired a leading human rights lawyer to challenge her enforced quarantine.

Kaci Hickox, a Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) health worker, was the first person to be placed under a mandatory quarantine for volunteers who return to New York, New Jersey and Chicago after fighting the deadly virus.

She was ordered into 21 days of isolation despite testing negative for the disease. She described the policy as a violation of her human rights.

"I had spent a month watching children die, alone," she said. "I had witnessed human tragedy unfold before my eyes. I had tried to help when much of the world has looked on and done nothing."

In an open letter to the Dallas Morning News in the city where she trained, she said of her treatment: "I wondered what I had done wrong. I think this is an extreme that is really unacceptable."

The nurse, who worked in Sierra Leone, has hired the lawyer Norman Siegel to challenge the policy.

Chris Christie, the Governor of New Jersey, defended the quarantine rules, which are stricter than elsewhere in the US. "It was my conclusion that we needed to do this to protect the public health of the people of New Jersey," he said. "We have taken this action, and I have no second thoughts about it."

The curbs were imposed after an MSF doctor went about his business in New York for five days before discovering he had caught the disease in west Africa. Dr Craig Spencer was said to have entered a more serious stage of the illness yesterday and is being treated at a New York hospital.

The New York Times quoted an unnamed White House official who described the imposition of the mandatory quarantine order as "uncoordinated, very hurried, an immediate reaction to the New York City case that doesn't comport with science."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141027eaar0003b


NEWS
US nurse who threatened to sue over Ebola quarantine to be freed
By Rosa Prince New York
677 words
27 October 2014
11:11 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie makes a major u-turn on enforced quarantine policy to allow Kaci Hickox to be isolated in home state of Maine

A nurse who threatened to sue over being forced into quarantine when she returned to the United States after treating Ebola patients in Sierra Leone could be freed from hospital on Monday.

In an embarrassing about-turn, Chris Christie, the governor of New Jersey, said he would agree to lift the controversial quarantine imposed on Kaci Hickox if she received the all-clear from the Center for Disease Control, which is in charge of responding to the Ebola outbreak.

Miss Hickox tested negative for Ebola soon after being taken into quarantine when she arrived at New Jersey’s Newark Airport on her way home to Maine from Africa on Friday night. She had been volunteering with the charity Doctors Without Borders and had spent time caring for children dying from the virus.

Her arrival coincided with the imposition of controversial strict quarantine measures in New Jersey and neighbouring New York, which were introduced in response to the case of a doctor who tested positive for the disease five days after returning to his home in Manhattan from treating Ebola victims in Guinea.

Dr Craig Spencer remains in a serious but stable condition at New York’s Bellevue Hospital.

Miss Hickox complained that her human rights had been abused and that she was being treated like a “criminal”. On Sunday she hired a leading human rights lawyer to challenge the quarantine order.

Governor Christie, a colourful figure who has confirmed he is considering seeking the 2016 Republican presidential nomination, initially defended the strict new rules, even after New York’s governor, Andrew Cuomo, announced that his state would loosen them.

But on Monday morning, amid suggestions that the White House also opposed the quarantining of health workers who did not have symptoms, for fear it would put others off volunteering, Mr Christie changed tack.

In an interview with the New York Times, [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/28/nyregion/nurse-in-newark-to-be-allowed-to-finish-ebola-quarantine-at-home-christie-says.html?hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&version=LedeSum&module=first-column-region®ion=top-news&WT.nav=top-news] he said: I’m hopeful that this morning if all goes well we’ll be able to release her and send her back to Maine.”

Miss Hickox had reacted with anger after Mr Christie claimed that she was “obviously ill” when she had tested negative for the disease.

She was taken to hospital having registered a slight fever at Newark Airport, which she claimed was due to being kept waiting for hours in a warm room with no food or drink, and because staff used a less reliable forehead strip thermometer rather than an oral reader. Her temperature was back to normal on arrival at hospital.

In a statement, Mr Christie’s office said Miss Hickox was being released as she had been symptom-free for 24 hours after testing negative.

She would be taken to Maine using a “private carrier,” rather than public transport or a commercial aircraft, and the quarantine order would remain in place as long as she was within the New Jersey state boundary.

Officials in Maine would determine how she should be treated on arrival there. She may be required to remain in isolation at home, or sign an agreement not to enter into situations involving close proximity with the public, such as travelling by bus or eating in a restaurant.

Meanwhile, a five-year-old is being monitored for the Ebola virus in New York after returning from Guinea.

He is being cared for in isolation at Bellevue, the same hospital Dr Spencer is being treated at, and the results of his blood tests are expected this afternoon.

The boy‘s family said they did not believe he had been exposed to the Ebola virus while in Guinea, but given his travel history doctors decided to take him into isolation when he began showing symptoms consistent with the disease on Sunday night.

He did not initially have a fever but developed one first thing this morning.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141027eaar003xu


NEWS
American soldiers returning from West Africa quarantined in Italy
By Nick Squires Rome, and agencies
379 words
27 October 2014
02:31 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
American solidiers stationed in Vicenza, northern Italy, have been confined to their base on return from West Africa, in order to stop the spread of Ebola

A dozen American soldiers returning from working in West Africa were on Monday placed in isolation at a US military base in Italy as a precaution to prevent the potential spread of the Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] virus.

"Out of an abundance of caution, the army directed a small number of personnel, about a dozen, that recently returned to Italy, to be monitored in a separate location at their home station of Vicenza," said Col. Steven Warren, a Pentagon spokesman.

"They're not allowed to leave."

The isolation could last up to 21 days, during which time the soldiers will be regularly checked for Ebola symptoms.

Col. Warren said that at this stage none of the soldiers displayed symptoms of the deadly disease.

The soldiers placed in isolation on the base in Vicenza, in the Veneto region of northern Italy, included Maj. Gen. Darryl Williams, the commander of the US military's initial response to the Ebola outbreak.

Achille Variati, the mayor of the city, said: "The American military authorities have assured me that all the soldiers returning from Africa are healthy. None of them display any of the symptoms of Ebola. But they will all be monitored constantly."

If any soldier does show symptoms of the disease, they will be placed in an isolation ward in Vicenza's San Bortolo hospital.

Dozens more troops would be isolated in the coming days as they rotate out of West Africa, where the US military has been building infrastructure to help health authorities treat Ebola victims.

There are now 700 US troops in West Africa, including nearly 600 in Liberia and 100 in Senegal.

The force is due to grow to at least 3,200 in coming weeks and possibly as large as 3,900.

The US military team has set up mobile laboratories to test for the virus, built a 25-bed hospital for health workers and is constructing Ebola treatment units.

West Africa is the epicentre of the Ebola outbreak, which has claimed the lives of nearly 5,000 people.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141027eaar004v2


NEWS
West End club forced to backtrack over 'Ebola themed' Halloween party
By Camilla Turner
704 words
27 October 2014
12:33 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
An exclusive Mayfair club which was accused of 'trivialising' the Ebola crisis by hosting a 'Saturday Night Ebola Fever' fancy dress party has apologised

A West End club which was accused of “trivialising” the Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] crisis after The Telegraph revealed they were holding an “Ebola themed” Halloween party has been forced to apologise and change the name of the event.

The Scotch of St James, which was a popular live music venue for rock stars such as Sir Paul McCartney, Rod Stewart and Jimi Hendrix, was branded “reprehensible” for hosting a “Saturday Night Ebola Fever” Halloween party.[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11187942/Mayfair-club-to-host-Ebola-themed-Halloween-party.html]

Promoters of the fancy-dress event, said that the party "started as something light-hearted that was not supposed to be taken seriously" adding that they "apologise if any upset or offence has been caused.”

Mom X Dad, the event promoters, have now re-named the event, which has over 800 guests invited and is due to take place on Saturday night, as “Saturday Night Live” explaining they wished to "reflect any sensitivities surrounding the event”.

Since The Telegraph’s article, a new flyer for the event has been created without the word “Ebola”, which had originally appeared in a font style normally used on posters for horror films.

Messages posted on the event by invitees which referred to the previous name of the party - “Saturday Night Ebola Fever” - have now been deleted.

Promoters have also removed one of their Ebola-themed hashtags “#SpreadYourLegsNotEbola”, which, given that the virus can be sexually transmitted, may have added to the impression that they "trivialising" the crisis.

The other less offensive hashtags, including “#SpreadLoveNotEbola” and “#StopTheSpread”, remained on the event page.

Mom X Dad posted a message on the Facebook event which said: “To avoid any further confusion regarding the theme of this event, the original name of this charity event has now been changed to just, ‘Saturday Night Fever’.

“We will still be taking donations on entry and over the bars on the night.”

The event will still be fancy-dress, with a “No costume, no entry” policy but a message has now been added to the Facebook event which explains it will be a “70's disco themed” party.

Miriam Mason-Sesay, Country Director of EducAid, an education charity which is running a special campaign to stop the spread of Ebola in Sierra Leone, welcomed the change of the event name, saying that it was “constructive.”

“We need to get people to think more clearly about the realities [of the Ebola crisis] rather than the drama, to reduce the panic and get people to respond to facts rather than to fear," she said.

“You will get hysteria if you have a misrepresented view of what Ebola is. It is about getting a sensible perception of what it is. It goes in line with a vilification of foreigners if we are not careful.

“People are embarrassed about how they responded to HIV 30 years ago, but [the response to Ebola] smacks of those sorts of responses.”

The Scotch of St James, located in the heart of Mayfair, first opened in 1965 and gained popularity as a venue for live music venue for up and coming rock bands.

Hendrix played his first ever UK gig there just a year after it opened, and the club went on to host bands such as The Beatles, The Rolling Stones, The Who, The Moody Blues and Stevie Wonder.

The Scotch of St James said in a statement: “The Scotch would like to apologise for any offence that may have been caused by the initial naming of this Saturday night's Halloween event at the club.

"Though the aim was always to raise awareness and funds to help fight Ebola, we have now realised the potential to cause upset and have therefore decided to rename the event with a more appropriate title.

The club said that as a gesture of good will they would be making a donation to Save the Children, and added: "We take this matter very seriously.

"We hope this underlines our sincerity at helping to fight this horrible disease and about our wider community responsibilities.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141027eaar0035x


NEWS
José Manuel Barroso hands 'self-serving' photo album to David Cameron
By Matthew Holehouse Political Correspondent Brussels
398 words
27 October 2014
06:39 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
European leaders were taken aback to receive a book full of photos showing Mr Barroso meeting the Pope, the Prince of Wales and Bono

José Manuel Barroso, the outgoing president of the European Commission, caused consternation at the Brussels summit by handing Mr Cameron a lavishly-illustrated book boasting about his achievements in office.

The 600-page tome - entitled A Testimony by the President - features 89 colour photographs of Mr Barroso meeting figures including President Obama, the Pope, the Prince of Wales, the Dalai Lama and Bono.

It also contains copies of key speeches and documents from Mr Barroso's ten years at the helm of the EU.

Mr Barroso handed copies of the book to stunned European leaders as they arrived in Brussels on Friday night to discuss Ebola and the Ukraine crisis.

Downing Street was taken aback by the "extraordinary" parting gift - coinciding with a demand for Britain to contribute an extra £1.7 billion to the EU budget.

"I've never seen a book like it," said one Government source.

Asked what Mr Cameron thought of the book, the source added: "It's got some good photos of the G8 in it. But we've got our own elsewhere."

In one chapter, Mr Barroso writes of how Mr Cameron called him for help in settling a dispute with Spain over Gibraltar.

He writes that the EU has survived "against the odds", adding: "This text is not yet a memoir, but a first personal testimony I want to share still before I complete my mandates."

He claims the EU has emerged "stronger" from the eurozone crisis, despite the southern states being blighted by high unemployment and anaemic growth.

Mr Barroso writes: "Europe needs to entrench its institutional and economic strength in intellectual and popular political tenacity as well, because Europe is also a cultural project."

Grant Shapps, the Conservative Party chairman, said the book was a "delusional and self-serving" attempt to rewrite history.

"The EU should not be wasting our hard-earned money on ridiculous propaganda stunts, and vanity projects like this."

Brussels sources insisted the cost of the book was small, drawn from a small print run commissioned by Mr Barroso's office. It will go on sale to the general public at EU bookshops shortly.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141024eaao0060p


News
Stowaways hide amid jet skis
214 words
27 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; Scotland
8
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Immigration

Three suspected illegal immigrants were found hiding among jet skis worth thousands of pounds when they were unloaded at a boat yard.

The stowaways – believed to be Albanians – were hiding in the back of the lorry containing 12 jet skis worth £15,000 each on their way back from Ibiza.

It is believed the men hid in the 44ft–lorry after climbing into it midway through the ferry crossing from Spain to Portsmouth.

The discovery comes days after UK Border Force and ports officials were tightening up controls on vessels sailing from West Africa amid the Ebola crisis.

Staff at Watercraft World in Fareham, Hants, discovered the suspects as they began unloading jet skis.

Two men aged 33 and a 22–year–old man were arrested by police and were being questioned.

Nigel Kershaw, who runs Watercraft World, said the men carried Albanian passports, driving licences and £2,000 in cash.

He said: "All we could do was surround the vehicle and tell them to stay where they were until the police arrived."

A spokesman for Portsmouth Harbour refused to comment. A UK Border Force spokesman said: "We continue to strengthen the security of our border to stop those who have no right to enter the UK."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141027eaar00093


News
Last British combat troops leave Helmand [...]
BEN FARMER; HOLLY WATT
522 words
26 October 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
2; National
1
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
BRITISH FORCES are poised to leave Helmand within the coming days, closing a chapter in the UK's 13-year Afghanistan campaign.

Afghan officials have announced they will soon take control of Camp Bastion, Britain's last base in the province.

The departure from Helmand, where the great majority of Britain's 453 fatalities from the campaign have occurred, is effectively the end of Britain's Afghan war. It comes as Britain prepares to pull all combat troops out of the country by the end of the year.

Mohammad Naeem, governor of Helmand, said his forces would take charge of the base within days because they were now able to secure the province without foreign troops.

The sprawling complex surrounded by desert has been the centre of British operations in Afghanistan since UK troops first deployed to Helmand in 2006. At its largest, the base had a perimeter of 22 miles.

The Government at the time said the troops would be there only to protect reconstruction efforts, but troops quickly found themselves thinly stretched and fighting for their lives against a determined Taliban enemy.

Gen Sir Nick Carter, Chief of the General Staff, said on Friday that security in Helmand remained "difficult". Afghan troops have suffered heavy casualties in the province this year in the face of determined Taliban attempts to retake towns such as Sangin and Nowzad, which were once held by British forces.

Sir Nick said that despite such combat, overall the insurgency was "not the force it once was".

The handover of Camp Bastion would be significant "for all sorts of reasons", he said, "not least because of the sacrifice that so many people have made in Helmand".

He went on: "But also we are able to look forward with some pride, I think, about how the Afghans are going to be able to step up to the plate and take all of this on for us.

"They are going to have challenges, but I am absolutely confident that the majority of the population in central Helmand will be secured by Afghan forces."

A battalion of troops, believed to be Americans, will be the only foreign forces remaining in the province, the governor said.

At the peak of the Afghan war, there were 10,000 British personnel in Helmand and more than 20,000 US marines, Danes, Estonians and others, manning more 180 bases and checkpoints.

The runway at Bastion, which was once the fifth busiest UK-operated runway, will instead handle commercial flights, he said.

The withdrawal of British troops means that by next month, the military deployment to fight Ebola will be bigger than the Afghanistan deployment.

Hundreds of vehicles and hundreds of shipping containers full of kit have been transported back to the UK in recent months.

Britain will keep several hundred military advisers and trainers in the Afghan capital, Kabul, after the end of the year, but ministers have stressed that they will not fight.

The Ministry of Defence declined to comment on when Camp Bastion would be handed over.

Lord Dannatt: Page 25

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141026eaaq00098


NEWS
US nurse sues after being forced into quarantine as she returned from treating Ebola patients in Sierra Leone
By Rosa Prince New York
1120 words
26 October 2014
03:07 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Kaci Hickox accused New York and New Jersey officials of criminalising those risking their lives to fight virus in Africa

A US nurse who says she was treated like a "criminal" after returning from caring for Ebola victims in West Africa has hired a top human rights lawyer to challenge her enforced quarantine.

Kaci Hickox, the first person to be placed under a new mandatory quarantine for health workers who arrive back in the US via airports in New York, New Jersey and Chicago, was ordered into a 21 day period of isolation despite testing negative for the disease.

She has now hired Norman Siegel, a high profile civil rights attorney, to challenge the order.

In an open letter to a newspaper in Texas, where she studied nursing, she claimed her human rights were abused when she was sent to hospital in a Hamzat suit having falsely tested positive for a fever at New Jersey’s Newark Airport.

She added that she was “scared” for other health workers who risked their lives to volunteer in the Ebola-stricken nations at the heart of the current outbreak, and feared that doctors and nurses would be put off for fear of being treated as an outcast when they returned.

Mr Siegel told CNN: “The policy infringes on Kaci Hickox’s constitutional liberty interests. The policy is overly broad as applied to Ms Hickox and we are preparing to challenge it on her behalf.”

Miss Hickox added: “I think this is an extreme that is really unacceptable. I feel like my basic human rights have been violated.”

Her view was echoed by Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases, who told Fox News Sunday: “The best way [to protect Americans] is to stop the epidemic in Africa, and we need those health care workers."

But Chris Christie, the Governor of New Jersey, defended the new quarantine rules, which are stricter than elsewhere in the US, saying: "It was my conclusion that we needed to do this to protect the public health of the people of New Jersey.

"This is government's job. We have taken this action, and I have no second thoughts about it."

The restrictions were imposed after a doctor who had returned from treating Ebola patients in Guinea tested positive for the virus having spent five days mixing with the public New York City without realising he had the disease.

Dr Craig Spencer was said to have entered a more serious stage of the illness and is being treated in isolation at a hospital in New York. He has received a plasma transfusion from Nancy Writebol, a US missionary who survived the disease.

The New York Times quoted an unnamed White House official [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/27/nyregion/ebola-quarantine.html?smid=tw-bna] who described the imposition of the mandatory quarantine order as “uncoordinated, very hurried, an immediate reaction to the New York City case that doesn’t comport with science.”

In her article in the Dallas Morning News, [http://www.dallasnews.com/ebola/headlines/20141025-uta-grad-isolated-at-new-jersey-hospital-as-part-of-ebola-quarantine.ece] Miss Hickox described her harrowing experiences treating dying children while working for Doctors Without Borders in Sierra Leone, and said she had been through a difficult journey when she landed at Newark on Friday.

After identifying herself to immigration officials, she said she was left waiting for so long without food or water that she became flustered and although an initial check found she had no fever, a second one using a less reliable forehead strip thermometer indicated she had a temperature of 101 degrees.

Although her temperature on arrival at hospital was normal and a blood test confirmed she did not have Ebola, she will still have to undergo 21 days of quarantine.

“I had spent a month watching children die, alone. I had witnessed human tragedy unfold before my eyes. I had tried to help when much of the world has looked on and done nothing. I wondered what I had done wrong.”

Miss Hickox challenged Mr Christie to visit her in hospital, rejecting his claim that she was "clearly unwell."

Describing her experience at Newark Airport, Miss Hickox said: “I walked up to the immigration official at the airport and was greeted with a big smile and a ‘hello.’

"I told him that I have traveled from Sierra Leone and he replied, a little less enthusiastically: ‘No problem. They are probably going to ask you a few questions.

“He put on gloves and a mask and called someone. Then he escorted me to the quarantine office a few yards away. I was told to sit down. Everyone that came out of the offices was hurrying from room to room in white protective coveralls, gloves, masks, and a disposable face shield.

“One after another, people asked me questions. Some introduced themselves, some didn’t. One man who must have been an immigration officer because he was wearing a weapon belt that I could see protruding from his white coveralls barked questions at me as if I was a criminal.

“I was tired, hungry and confused, but I tried to remain calm. My temperature was taken using a forehead scanner and it read a temperature of 98. I was feeling physically healthy but emotionally exhausted.

“Four hours after I landed at the airport, an official approached me with a forehead scanner. My cheeks were flushed, I was upset at being held with no explanation. The scanner recorded my temperature as 101. The female officer looked smug. 'You have a fever now,' she said.

“Eight police cars escorted me to the University Hospital in Newark. Sirens blared, lights flashed. Again, I wondered what I had done wrong.

“My blood was taken and tested for Ebola. It came back negative. I sat alone in the isolation tent and thought of many colleagues who will return home to America and face the same ordeal. Will they be made to feel like criminals and prisoners?

“I recalled my last night at the Ebola management center in Sierra Leone. I was called in at midnight because a 10-year-old girl was having seizures. I coaxed crushed tablets of Tylenol and an anti-seizure medicine into her mouth as her body jolted in the bed.

"It was the hardest night of my life. I watched a young girl die in a tent, away from her family.

“With few resources and no treatment for Ebola, we tried to offer our patients dignity and humanity in the face of their immense suffering.

“We need more health care workers to help fight the epidemic in West Africa. The US must treat returning health care workers with dignity and humanity.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141026eaaq00439


LIFESTYLE
UK-trained doctor who died to save Nigeria from Ebola
By Colin Freeman
1761 words
26 October 2014
07:41 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
UK-trained Dr Stella Adadevoh's swift, selfless action after identifying Nigeria’s 'Patient Zero' halted the spread of the deadly virus in her homeland

Bankole Cardoso’s memories of his mother’s last days are not ones to cherish. As she lay dying in a makeshift Ebola treatment ward in a derelict Nigerian hospital, the one thing he wanted to do was sit by her side and hold her hand. Instead, the closest he was allowed to get was looking at her through a window.

“On the first day, I was able to stand by the window and speak to her,” says Mr Cardoso, 26, describing how staff on the ward put her in ever greater isolation. “But as time went on, I wasn’t even able to do that. It is the worst part of this illness – as upset and emotional as you are, you have to hold back.”

Cruel and deadly in equal measure, Ebola has killed nearly 5,000 people in west Africa – most of them, like Mr Cardoso’s mother, dying without the benefit of a loved one to comfort them in their dreadful final hours.

But for him there is one consolation: the knowledge that while Ebola may have killed his mother, she in turn may have stopped it killing thousands or even millions of other Nigerians.

Dr Stella Adadevoh, as his mother was known professionally, was not a virology or public-health expert, simply a duty consultant at the First Consultant Hospital, a private clinic in Lagos. It was her sharp-eyed diagnosis, however, that identified Nigeria’s first case of the virus – a 40-year-old civil servant called Patrick Sawyer, who flew in to Lagos from Ebola-devastated Liberia in July.

Unfortunately, Nigeria’s “Patient Zero”, as he is now referred to, was also suffering from acute “Ebola denial” syndrome. His sister in Liberia had died of the virus just two weeks before, and he knew that he too was a likely carrier. Yet in defiance of all common sense, he had boarded a flight to Nigeria, insisting he simply had a bad case of malaria even when he collapsed on arrival at Lagos airport.

It was Dr Adadevoh, 57, who first suspected he was lying – and, crucially, then stood her ground when he began screaming to be let out of hospital and threatening staff. At one point, he had to be physically restrained after pulling out his medical drips and splashing blood around his room.

Her courage had a high price. On August 19, nearly a month after Mr Sawyer’s death, she too died – one of eight people he passed the virus on to directly. Were it not for her quick thinking, however, the current Ebola outbreak would almost certainly be far worse than it is. Nigeria, with 170 million people, has nearly 10 times the population of the other infected nations of Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea. And Lagos, a chaotic megacity of 17 million people, would have been a perfect petri dish for the virus to start spreading in. Had Mr Sawyer been allowed to leave his hospital room – let alone boarded a flight to a business conference in another Nigerian city, as he had intended – the consequences could have been catastrophic.

This weekend, health officials are trying to avert a similar disaster in Mali, after discovering that a two-year-old girl who was the country’s first victim had travelled by bus more than 600 miles from Guinea, potentially infecting hundreds of other travellers.

Once again, it demonstrates the difference a vigilant medic can make – although so far Dr Adadevoh’s extraordinary bravery has attracted little attention in the outside world. She did, however, receive an implicit accolade last week when the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared that Nigeria was Ebola-free again, with no new cases in the past six weeks. While credit also went to officials in Lagos who tracked down and quarantined hundreds of Mr Sawyer’s fellow airline passengers, had it not been for Dr Adadevoh’s early warning to the health ministry, an already difficult task would have been far harder.

As Rui Gama Vaz, a WHO spokesman, put it: “This is a spectacular success story. It shows that Ebola can be contained.”

Such compliments are rare for Nigeria, where stories of sacrifice in the line of duty are vastly outweighed by those of corruption and incompetence. It is in stark contrast to the criticism that the government received for its bungled response to the kidnapping of more than 200 schoolgirls by the Boko Haram Islamist group in April.

But as ever in Nigeria, things worked out as much by accident as design. If it had been business as usual in Lagos, Dr Adadevoh would never have treated Mr Sawyer. When medics first picked him up from Lagos airport, the city’s doctors were in the middle of a strike, meaning that medical services were even worse than normal. However, that proved to be a blessing in disguise. Rather than being taken to a public hospital, where he could have spent hours or even days waiting for treatment – potentially infecting hundreds of other patients and medics – he ended up at Dr Adadevoh’s privately run clinic, which happened to be near the airport.

“My mum first saw him on her rounds the next day, at which point nobody had yet sussed him out – he was still being treated for malaria,” says Mr Cardoso. “But she realised immediately that something was very wrong. She said it was as if blood was oozing right beneath his skin. She asked where he’d come from, the staff said 'Liberia’, and straight away it clicked. Ebola. But I can understand why the others didn’t realise: they’d never had Ebola in Nigeria before. One of the nurses had already given him a full body bath, so she died after getting a massive dose.”

Had Dr Adadevoh been in Britain, where she worked at Hammersmith Hospital in the early 1990s, this would probably have been where her involvement ended. Officials would have swung into action, she would have been thanked for her efforts, and told the matter was now in expert hands. But this was Nigeria, and there were no experts. Instead, she spent the next few days learning on the job, hammering out a treatment protocol from scratch, trying to stop fellow staff panicking, and facing down threats from Mr Sawyer.

“When she and another doctor told him that he would have to be tested for Ebola, which would take two or three days, he flipped out,” says Mr Cardoso. “He called the Liberian ambassador to Nigeria, who said they were going to sue the hospital for detaining him, that he was a VIP and had to go to this important conference.

“He was even trying to infect people intentionally, removing his drip. One doctor told me that blood was dripping from him like a tap, and that he tried to urinate all over the room.”

Faced with such threats, it would have been all too easy for the medics to back down. Sticking up for the rules against well-connected functionaries is not always good for one’s job prospects in Nigeria.

Dr Adadevoh, who is from a prominent Nigerian family – her son was educated at Rugby School in Warwickshire – refused to be intimidated. But that was no protection against the virus. While her family insists she always observed strict safety procedures, within three weeks of Mr Sawyer’s death, an ambulance was taking Dr Adadevoh to Lagos’s new Ebola ward – a “wretched place”, her son says, set up in a disused TB clinic.

Mr Cardoso, an only child, and his father visited the ward every day, meeting a WHO Ebola specialist who would step out of his protective hazmat suit and give them an update. The father and son were also monitoring their own medical conditions closely, having been told that they too might have caught the virus from Dr Adadevoh.

“It was just an awful period,” says Mr Cardoso. “Every morning we were waking up and checking our temperature, and little things like a sore throat or diarrhoea would make you panic.”

Mr Cardoso did his best to rally his mother, speaking to her via mobile phone, and pleading with her to drink the eight litres of rehydration fluid that the doctors prescribed for her every day. On her fifth day in the clinic – Mr Cardoso’s birthday – she seemed to rally. “The doctor said he thought she might be through the worst of it,” he said. “But the next day, when we came in feeling the most optimistic we had been, they told us to prepare for the worst. My dad and I were just crushed.”

Not surprisingly, Mr Cardoso holds Mr Sawyer partly responsible for his mother’s death. “It was an irresponsible and wicked thing to do, to come to another country and infect other people,” he says.

But the pain he feels about that has been offset by the endless plaudits for his mother in Nigeria’s newspapers, which have hailed her as a national heroine. “The tributes make me proud because she deserves it. In somewhere like Lagos, Ebola could have been a nightmare.”

Mr Cardoso – a prominent entrepreneur who has set up an Uber-style taxi app in Lagos – is now planning to honour his mother by founding a charitable health trust in her name.

However, in what some say is a typical example of old-school Nigerian bureaucracy, calls for her to be given a national award have so far gone unheeded. In September, the Nigerian government published its 2014 National Honours award list – mostly a bland roll-call of public worthies – but said that she could not be among them because such awards are never given posthumously.

However, universities, churches and even the country’s 'Nollywood’ film industry are already paying tribute to her with everything from honorary degrees to buildings named after her. A street vendor near Mr Cardoso’s house even stocks CDs of songs and poems made in her honour. It is proof, perhaps, that whatever indifference the government has shown, ordinary Nigerians have already made up their mind.

“People are inspired by her story,” says Mr Cardoso. “And for me, that is particularly good, because it is a Nigerian story.”

For more information on the health trust for Dr Stella Adadevoh, visit drasatrust.org[http://drasatrust.org]

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141026eaaq000rw


Friends: The One Where Dave Cheers Up
558 words
26 October 2014
06:55 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
In our political sitcom, Dave finds reasons to be cheerful at the end of a beastly week

“Singapore!” said Dave.

“I’m sorry?” said Sam.

“Singapore!” said Dave again. “That’s the place I’d like to be running. I was talking to the president when he was over here this week – marvellous chap, didn’t quite catch his name – and he was telling me about how they’ve got it all sorted. No debt, no deficit, booming unemployment – and best of all, no other parties.”

“No other parties? That doesn’t sound quite right.”

“Well, they do have some other parties. But none of them actually get to win power. They’ve had the same government since the Fifties. If some Nigel Farage equivalent popped up there, he’d probably find himself in chokey pretty sharpish.”

“Gosh,” said Sam. “I can see the appeal.”

“Quite,” said Dave. “And best of all, they don’t have to negotiate with the bleeding European Union.”

Sam ran a sympathetic hand over Dave’s shoulder. Frankly, it had been a bit of a beastly week all round. The dismal public-sector finances. The repeated wrangling with Labour over the NHS. Ukip surging ahead in Rochester & Strood. Foreign prisoners not being deported. Being told by Jean-Claude Juncker that no, there wasn’t any wiggle room on reforming freedom of movement as part of the EU renegotiations – even though in his letter asking about it, he’d not only put the word “PLEASE” in capitals but also underlined it. Twice.

And then there’d been that whole argument about Ebola funding – it was perfectly OK for the European Parliament to ask for billions of euros that he’d decided not to give it, but ask them to spend a little something on plague-ridden African nations and they all started coughing and looking at their shoes.

Dave sighed. “I’m beginning to feel a bit like I’m running Tesco,” he admitted. “A once-mighty institution that millions of Britons were proud to support, but which is steadily losing market share to its rivals.”

“Because it can’t make the numbers add up?” asked Sam, cheekily.

“Don’t you start, too,” said Dave, wearily.

“Oh, cheer up,” said Sam. “No one will have noticed. The only political thing that anyone cared about this week was that awful Ukip calypso.”

“That’s true,” said Dave, brightening. “First time I’ve laughed at anything John Prescott’s said, when he tweeted about how he didn’t know Mike Read had a criminal record.”

“Oh, that’s a good one,” said Sam. “Still, it wasn’t quite as funny as Ed promising to crack down on immigration.”

“Oh, my, yes,” said Dave. “I’d completely forgotten about that. Bless him for trying, though.”

“It’s like Renée Zellweger,” said Sam.

“Come again?” said Dave.

“You know, those new photos of her that were doing the rounds. No matter how much you’re told it’s the same person, you just can’t make the connection.”

“Ah, I get you. You’re saying that Comrade Ed doesn’t exactly convince as the terror of the Polish plumbers.”

“Exactly,” said Sam. “Though come to think of it, I don’t think he’d be much better in Bridget Jones…”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141025eaap004h5


NEWS
Mayfair club to host 'Ebola' themed Halloween party
By Camilla Turner
571 words
26 October 2014
04:48 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
One of the West End’s most famous clubs has been accused of ‘trivialising’ the Ebola crisis by throwing a ‘Saturday Night Ebola Fever’ fancy dress event

A prestigious music club in London’s West End has been branded “reprehensible” over plans for an Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] -themed Halloween party.

The Scotch of St James, which was popular with rock stars including Sir Paul McCartney and Jimi Hendrix, is to host an event titled “Saturday Night Ebola Fever” next weekend.

Organisers say they will be enforcing a strict fancy-dress code for the party, ensuring the outfits of attendees are in keeping with the theme. A Facebook page advertising the event states: “No costume, no entry.”

There are more than 800 invited guests listed on the Facebook page, which is being organised by Momxdad, a London-based “creative production agency” which lists The Scotch among its clients on its website.

Tom Dannatt, chief executive and founder of Street Child, a charity which is running an Ebola crisis appeal to raise funds for those affected by the virus, said: “To trivialise matters like that let alone to instrumentalise them for one’s own enjoyment or commercial gain is beyond the pale.

“Anyone trying to make any personal benefit let alone light out of the Ebola situation is reprehensible.”

One invitee to the event on Facebook told The Telegraph that a message was subsequently added, saying that a “discretionary donation” of £10 could be given on the door, and the money would go to Doctors Without Borders in aid of Ebola victims.

Mr Dannatt said: “We need all the money we can get to go into fighting Ebola and the human consequences of it.

“But if it is a discretionary donation – attaching a charity’s name to the branding of a night - that’s not charity, that’s just wrong.”

An image on the Facebook page features the words “Saturday Night Ebola Fever” with “Ebola” in a font style usually seen on posters for horror films.

A spokesman for Momxdad said: “The theme is Saturday Night Fever, not Ebola. This has always been about charity, we wouldn’t want to make fun of people dying.

“Calling the event 'Saturday Night Ebola Fever’ is just a play on words. We are not trivialising it, we intended this to be a helpful thing.

“If it has not come across that way maybe we should not go ahead with it.”

The Scotch of St James, located in the heart of Mayfair, first opened in 1965 and gained popularity as a venue for live music venue for up and coming rock bands.

Hendrix played his first ever UK gig there just a year after it opened, and the club went on to host bands such as The Beatles, The Rolling Stones, The Who, The Moody Blues and Stevie Wonder.

A spokesman for The Scotch said: “We are aware events company Momxdad is hosting a charity Halloween event this Saturday to raise money that would go towards helping victims of Ebola.

"They are estimated to make roughly £1,500 (from donations which will be taken on entry) which would go to Doctors without Borders.

“We support Momxdad’s charity Halloween event as we take the Ebola crisis very seriously, and would like to help as much as we can on our part to stem the spread of Ebola.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141026eaaq0018h


NEWS
The public deserves better than stealth NHS closures
By Julia Manning Chief Executive, 2020health
943 words
26 October 2014
04:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Julia Manning, the chief executive of think tank 2020health on the need for a public conversation about the challenges facing the NHS

Simon Stevens, the chief executive of NHS England, published his "Five year forward view" on Thursday - a much needed explanation of the challenges that the NHS is facing and what can be done about them.

The prescription for treatment is roughly: revolutionising prevention; empowering patients and engaging communities. This plan really needs to be the start of a high-profile narrative for the public if we are to understand and judge how and why NHS services should change, and how we as individuals should respond.

The public’s frustration in recent years has been down to what seem to be ad hoc, disorganised changes by stealth to the NHS.

Downgrading or closures to A&E and maternity services in particular have punctuated the NHS landscape, with no clear sense of any overarching strategy or cohesive approach to what are still called “national” services.

The response to proposed changes has become stereotyped: health staff raise petitions, the public demonstrate and the local MP pronounces their outrage at the proposals, no matter what Party they belong to. The results are equally predictable: proposed changes are delayed whilst staff morale falls; some leave for greater job security elsewhere and the MP gets to keep their constituents on side. And in some cases, the local health economy continues to haemorrhage money and get further into debt.

Actually, this stereotype has persisted because no one has been consistently articulating the bigger picture of the pressures on the NHS: more, and older, people living with long-term conditions; expensive new technologies that have allowed us to treat and prolong more lives; demand from higher public expectations and from more lifestyle related disease.

This lack of understanding and no coherent vision for the future has left a vacuum which has largely been filled by scaremongers.

Social media is awash with predictions of the end of the NHS, the ‘Americanisation’ of healthcare run entirely by excessive-profit corporates, conflations of privatisation with the plurality of providers and partnerships within the NHS that the public appreciate (Macmillan nurses, WhizzKids wheelchairs, high-street opticians, pharmacists and hospices) and warnings of upfront payments for services. The public are both worried and confused.

There have been voices in the wilderness, trying to set out the choices before us. The Medical Director of NHS England, Sir Bruce Keogh, has been forthright, stating the need to ensure NHS services are fit for the future, emphasising safety and quality of care and the need for specialist services to be brought together.

He is absolutely right that for rare and serious illness, and for appropriate treatment for major trauma there needs to be a critical mass of experience and expertise.

Having suffered a major accident, we would all rather be picked up by a highly skilled ambulance crew with doctor on board and be taken to a specialist centre where they know exactly how to treat you, than by a routine paramedic and taken to the local hospital where someone may or may not have seen a similar injury before. If the footballer Muamba had not received immediate expert care and been taken past local hospitals to a specialist centre, it’s unlikely he’d still be alive.

Yet to take the public on a journey from the old 20th century NHS, built to care for infectious disease at a time when life expectancy was 66 years for men and 71 years for women, to a NHS fit for the 21st century, takes a coherent and determined narrative from the top.

Michelle Obama’s campaign on obesity is a great example of high profile, consistent leadership that has clearly communicated the challenges faced and changes required to the US populace.

Despite significant levels of agreement between UK politicians on core NHS issues, all we seem to get publically from MPs (when not campaigning against local closures) are accusations and counter-accusations of mistakes. Not only is this not helping people to understand the real issues, but it’s not exactly a modus operandi that is winning public support anymore.

The “Five year forward view” plan is a real opportunity to start a grown-up debate. I personally was really pleased to see how much of it reflected what our thinktank 2020health has said, particularly on local services in our “Go with the flow” report, showing how local hospitals can diversify and benefit from community support, and on the need to tackle obesity. Ebola might be more fascinating, but the real health threat to the UK is obesity, and in “Careless eating costs lives” we set out 17 steps to improve our obesogenic environment and obesity related disease.

As to the charge that many changes to A&E and maternity are financially driven, in a way many of them are, it’s disingenuous to say they are not.

There is a finite pot of tax funds for the NHS and we need to ensure the best possible value for money, which goes hand-in-hand with quality and safety. Raising more money will only work if the funds are very specifically targeted. But here’s where the mature debate needs to go: what are our priorities for the NHS, because like it or not we can’t afford to do everything. Who is going to take on that bit of the conversation with the public?

Julia Manning is chief executive, 2020Health, a think tank whose mission is to "Make health personal".

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141026eaaq00131


News
Anger at Ebola theme party
CAMILLA TURNER
347 words
26 October 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
3; National
2
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A MUSIC club in London's West End has been branded "reprehensible" over plans for an Ebola-themed Hallowe'en party.

The Scotch of St James, which was popular with rock stars including Sir Paul McCartney and Jimi Hendrix, is to host an event titled "Saturday Night Ebola Fever" next weekend.

Organisers say they will be enforcing a strict fancy-dress code for the party, ensuring the outfits of attendees are in keeping with the theme.

There are more than 800 invited guests listed on the Facebook page, which is being organised by Mom X Dad, a London-based "creative production agency".

Tom Dannatt, chief executive and founder of Street Child, a charity which is running an Ebola crisis appeal to raise funds for those affected by the virus, said: "Anyone trying to make any personal benefit let alone light out of the Ebola situation is reprehensible."

One invitee to the event on Facebook said that a message was subsequently added, saying that a "discretionary donation" of £10 could be given on the door, and the money would go to Doctors Without Borders in aid of Ebola victims. Mr Dannatt said: "We need all the money we can get to go into fighting Ebola and the human consequences of it.

"But if it is a discretionary donation - attaching a charity's name to the branding of a night - that's not charity, that's just wrong."

A spokesman for Mom X Dad said: "Calling the event 'Saturday Night Ebola Fever' is just a play on words. We are not trivialising it, we intended this to be a helpful thing."

A spokesman forThe Scotch said: "Mom X Dad are estimated to make roughly £1,500 (from donations which will be taken on entry) which would go to Doctors without Borders. We support Mom X Dad's charity Hallowe'en event as we take the Ebola crisis very seriously, and would like to help as much as we can to stem the spread of Ebola." 10,000 fall sick: Page 41

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141026eaaq0009r


News
US fear global Ebola hits 10,00
ROB CRILLY
700 words
26 October 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
1; National
41
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
THE NUMBER of Ebola cases worldwide has passed 10,000, according to the World Health Organization (WHO), as the outbreak continues to spread.

Authorities in Mali were yesterday scrambling to contain fears after the death of a two-year-old girl who had travelled 700 miles on the country's bus network before receiving treatment.

President Barack Obama tried to reassure a panicking public in the US after two states imposed compulsory quarantine for doctors and nurses arriving home after treating patients overseas. The health organisation says the number of cases is growing exponentially in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.

The outbreak is the worst in history. Yesterday's statistics put the total at 10,141. Of those, 4,922 people had died.

The United Nations' health arm has said repeatedly that even those figures are likely to underestimate the true scale of the outbreak as many people have been unable or too frightened to seek medical care.

Four WHO experts are on their way to Mali, the sixth West African country to record an Ebola case, to reinforce its team there.

Markatche Daou, a spokesman for the Malian ministry of health, said the girl had arrived from Guinea, where she had visited Kissidougou, the town where the outbreak was first identified last December.

"Everyone who had contact with the girl is under medical surveillance," he said.

Health organisation experts warned that many people in Mali had potentially been exposed to the virus because the toddler travelled across the country while she displayed symptoms. More than 40 people with whom she was in contact, including 10 health care workers, are being monitored for symptoms such as fever.

So far, only 27 cases have occurred outside the three most badly hit countries. But the WHO has identified 15 other African nations at high risk of importing the disease.

However, hopes have been raised for trials of vaccines, which could begin in West Africa in December, earlier than expected, and hundreds of thousands of doses should be available for use by the middle of next year.

Meanwhile, authorities in New York have begun disinfecting bars and restaurants visited by Craig Spencer, a 33-year-old doctor, who tested positive for the disease on Thursday night.

The case provoked anxiety among New Yorkers, who complained that Dr Spencer should have been quarantined on returning from Guinea, where he had been treating Ebola patients with the medical charity Médecins Sans Frontières.

Biohazard teams have cleaned Dr Spencer's apartment and a bowling alley he visited shortly before being taken ill.

Friends said he was well enough to practise yoga in hospital.

Dr Mary Travis Bassett, the city health commissioner, defended Dr Spencer, pointing out that he had quarantined himself as soon as he displayed symptoms.

"There's this young guy who went over there, really doing the right thing, the courageous thing, and he handled himself really well," she told The New York Times. "I don't want anyone portraying him as reckless."

At the same time, health officials in New Jersey said a nurse who developed a fever on Friday after returning from West Africa had tested negative for Ebola.

She was the first person to be quarantined on arrival at a US airport, following the introduction of tough new rules in New York and New Jersey.

They were imposed amid criticism that Washington was not doing enough to prevent the disease being carried into the US and calls for a complete ban on passengers arriving from West Africa.

Andrew Cuomo, governor of New York, said: "A voluntary Ebola quarantine is not enough. This is too serious a public health situation to leave to the honour system of compliance.

"I think increasing the screening procedures is necessary and reduces the risk to New Yorkers and people in New Jersey."

Health workers who have had contact with Ebola patients now face 21 days in isolation when they arrive back in the two states.

President Obama used his weekly Saturday address to reassure Americans. He said the disease was difficult to catch and that all seven Americans who had contracted Ebola had been treated successfully.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141026eaaq0007p


Editorial; Opinion; Leading articles
FRIENDS
532 words
26 October 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
1; National
31
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
"SINGAPORE!" said Dave.

"I'm sorry?" said Sam.

"Singapore!" said Dave again.

"That's the place I'd like to be running. I was talking to the president when he was over here this week - marvellous chap, didn't quite catch his name - and he was telling me about how they've got it all sorted. No debt, no deficit, booming unemployment - and best of all, no other parties."

"No other parties? That doesn't sound quite right."

"Well, they do have some other parties. But none of them actually get to win power. They've had the same government since the Fifties. If some Nigel Farage equivalent popped up there, he'd probably find himself in chokey pretty sharpish."

"Gosh," said Sam. "I can see the appeal."

"Quite," said Dave. "And best of all, they don't have to negotiate with the bleeding European Union."

Sam ran a sympathetic hand over Dave's shoulder. Frankly, it had been a bit of a beastly week all round. The dismal public-sector finances. The repeated wrangling with Labour over the NHS. Ukip surging ahead in Rochester & Strood. Foreign prisoners not being deported. Being told by Jean-Claude Juncker that no, there wasn't any wiggle room on reforming freedom of movement as part of the EU renegotiations - even though in his letter asking about it, he'd not only put the word "PLEASE" in capitals but also underlined it. Twice.

And then there'd been that whole argument about Ebola funding - it was perfectly OK for the European Parliament to ask for billions of euros that he'd decided to spend a little something on plague-ridden African nations and they all started coughing and looking at their shoes.

Dave sighed. "I'm beginning to feel a bit like I'm running Tesco," he admitted. "A once-mighty institution that millions of Britons were proud to support, but which is steadily losing market share to its rivals."

"Because it can't make the numbers add up?" asked Sam, cheekily.

"Don't you start, too," said Dave, wearily.

"Oh, cheer up," said Sam.

"No one will have noticed. The only political thing that anyone cared about this week was that awful Ukip calypso."

"That's true," said Dave, brightening. "First time I've laughed at anything John Prescott's said, when he tweeted about how he didn't know Mike Read had a criminal record."

"Oh, that's a good one," said Sam. "Still, it wasn't quite as funny as Ed promising to crack down on immigration."

"Oh, my, yes," said Dave. "I'd completely forgotten about that. Bless him for trying, though."

"It's like Renée Zellweger," said Sam.

"Come again?" said Dave. "You know, those new photos of her that were doing the rounds. No matter how much you're told it's the same person, you just can't make the connection."

"Ah, I get you. You're saying that Comrade Ed doesn't exactly convince as the terror of the Polish plumbers."

"Exactly," said Sam. "Though come to think of it, I don't think he'd be much better in Bridget Jones…"

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141026eaaq0006z


News
COLIN FREEMAN
12 words
26 October 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
1; National
25
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The doctor who died saving Nigeria from Ebola P26

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141026eaaq0006l


Barack Obama: US will beat Ebola 'with facts, not fear'
By Geraldine Cooper and agencies, video source YouTube/WhiteHouse
204 words
25 October 2014
09:17 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
In his weekly address to Americans, President Obama says the US and the rest of the world must be guided by science, not fear, as it responds to Ebola

President Barack Obama has said America's response to the threat posed by Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] must be guided by facts, not fear.

In his weekly radio and Internet address, Mr Obama said he was proud to give Dallas nurse Nina Pham[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11187546/Dallas-nurse-who-survived-Ebola-feels-fortunate-and-blessed.html]a hug in the Oval Office after she was cured of Ebola.

He also praised New York's quick reaction to its first Ebola case, and reminded that they cannot contract virus unless they come into direct contact with a patient's bodily fluids.

"Here's the bottom line," he said. "Patients can beat this disease. And we can beat this disease. But we have to stay vigilant."

"We have to work together at every level - federal, state and local. And we have to keep leading the global response because the best way to stop this disease, the best way to keep Americans safe, is to stop it at its source in West Africa," he added.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141025eaap0025u


NEWS
New York authorities tracking movements of Ebola doctor
By David Millward US Correspondent
715 words
25 October 2014
07:03 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
After New York doctor Craig Spencer confirmed as fourth American case of Ebola, authorities quarantine his fiancée and close friends

Authorities in New York are trying to track the movements of Craig Spencer, the American doctor who tested positive for Ebola following his return to the city from Guinea.

Dr Spencer’s 30-year-old fiancée and two close friends have been placed in quarantine as a precaution, even though Bill de Blasio, the city’s mayor and Andrew Cuomo, the state governor, sought on Friday to reassure 8 million New Yorkers that they were not at risk.

Confirmation the disease had reached Manhattan came as Mali was declared the latest African country to be hit with Ebola, after an infected two-year-old girl came to the country from Guinea, another 43 people are now being monitored.

The World Health Organisation said it expected to have millions of doses of Ebola vaccine available next year to control the disease, which has already claimed nearly 5,000 lives. The European Union has pledged a further £743 million to bolster the campaign against the virus.

New York officials urged calm, insisting that they would not make the same mistakes as Dallas, where Ebola spread to two nurses from Thomas Eric Duncan, the Liberian who died from the disease. Both nurses have since been declared free of the virus.

Dr Spencer, 33, had been in Guinea treating Ebola sufferers, working with the charity Medecins Sans Frontieres. He returned to New York via Brussels on October 17.

Dr Spencer cleared enhanced screening at JFK for passengers arriving from Ebola-stricken countries and spent the next seven days living normally in the city.

He contacted the city’s health authorities at 11am on Thursday when he started showing symptoms, including a temperature of 100.3F triggering a suspicion he had contracted Ebola.

An emergency team, wearing protective clothing, was rushed to the flat on 147th street in Harlem, which Dr Spencer shared with his fiancée, Morgan Dixon, 30.

Both Dr Spencer and Ms Dixon were taken to Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan, the city’s designated Ebola centre.

Ms Morgan and two of Dr Spencer’s friends are now in protective quarantine.

In an effort to retrace Dr Spencer’s movements over the past week, the authorities are tracking his travel on the city’s subway system via his MetroCard travel pass.

The authorities will also use his credit card records to track shops and restaurants he visited from the time Dr Spencer returned to New York to when the physician was taken to hospital.

Although he largely stayed at home, Dr Spencer’s movements included a three-mile run around Harlem on Wednesday afternoon before visiting the High Line Drive – an urban elevated walkway in the Chelsea district of Manhattan – and then going to The Gutter, a bowling alley and music venue in Brooklyn which is now closed as a precaution.

Dr Spencer also took an Uber taxi back to Harlem, a journey of about 10 miles.

Andrew Cuomo, the governor of the New York state sought to head off an Ebola panic by stressing that the disease was not airborne and did not spread in the same way as flu.

He insisted that New York’s health authorities had handled Dr Spencer’s case properly.

“As soon as he was symptomatic, he presented himself to the hospital and we were ready.”

Bill de Blasio, the city’s mayor added: “Being on the same subway car or living near someone with Ebola does not in itself put someone at risk,” he said.

But others were less convinced.

Peter King, a Republican congressman from New York, said: “I don’t think we know all the facts about Ebola and how it is transmitted. It is better to be safe than sorry.

“There need to be more restrictions. We need to see whether the same protocols which apply in Africa, which is a wide open country, should apply in a confined city such as New York.” Global stock markets reacted nervously to the news of the Ebola outbreak in New York, with falls reported in Europe. However in New York itself shares edged up on early trading.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141024eaao00463


NEWS
New York and New Jersey order Ebola quarantines
By Agencies
1079 words
25 October 2014
07:02 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Medical workers and travellers who have come in contact with Ebola victims will now have to be quarantined for 21 days

Alarmed by the case of an Ebola-infected New York doctor, the governors of New Jersey and New York on Friday ordered a mandatory, 21-day quarantine for all medical workers and other arriving travellers who have had contact with victims of the deadly disease in West Africa.

The move came after a New York City physician who returned to the US a week ago from treating Ebola patients in Guinea fell ill with the virus. Many New Yorkers were dismayed to learn that after he came home, Dr. Craig Spencer rode the subway, took a cab, went bowling, visited a coffee shop and ate at a restaurant in the city of eight million.

New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie and New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said the case led them to conclude that the two states need precautions more rigorous than those of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which recommends monitoring of exposed people for 21 days but doesn't require quarantine, in which they are kept away from others.

"It's too serious a situation to leave it to the honor system of compliance," Cuomo said.

Those who are forcibly quarantined will be confined either to their homes or, if they live in other states, to some other place, most likely a medical facility, the governors said. Those quarantined at home will receive house calls from health officials. Twenty-one days is the incubation period for the Ebola virus.

Dr. Howard Zucker, acting New York state health commissioner, said any medical personnel who have treated Ebola patients in the three Ebola-ravaged West African countries - Sierra Leone, Guinea and Liberia - will be automatically quarantined.

Cuomo said anyone arriving from the three countries will be questioned at the airport about their contact with Ebola patients.

The two governors gave no estimate of how many travelers would be subject to quarantine, but Cuomo said "we're not talking about a tremendous volume of people coming in from these areas," and added that there are no plans to hire more screeners at airports.

The two states are home to Kennedy Airport and Newark Liberty in New Jersey, both major international portals.

Spencer's illness led members of Congress, scientists and ordinary New Yorkers to wonder why he was out on the town after his return from West Africa - and why stronger steps weren't being taken to quarantine medical workers.

Health officials said that he followed U.S. and international guidelines in checking his temperature every day and watching for symptoms, and that he put no one at risk. But others said he should have been quarantined - either voluntarily or by the government - during the incubation period.

An automatic three-week quarantine makes sense for anyone "with a clear exposure" to Ebola, said Dr. Richard Wenzel, a Virginia Commonwealth University scientist who formerly led the International Society for Infectious Diseases.

Aid organizations such as Doctors Without Borders, the group Spencer was working for, have argued that mandatory quarantines are unnecessary because people with Ebola aren't contagious until symptoms begin, and even then it requires close contact with body fluids.

Also, aid organizations have warned that many health care volunteers wouldn't go to Ebola hot zones if they knew they would be confined to their homes for three weeks after they got back.

Spencer, a 33-year-old emergency room doctor, returned from Guinea on Oct. 17 and sought treatment Thursday after suffering diarrhea and a 100.3-degrees Fahrenheit (37.94-Celsius) fever. He was listed in stable condition at a special isolation unit at Bellevue Hospital Center, and a decontamination company was sent to his Harlem home. His fiancee, who was not showing symptoms, was being watched in a quarantine ward at Bellevue.

Cuomo, too, was critical of Spencer, saying he did "great work" as a volunteer, but adding: "He's a doctor and even he didn't follow the voluntary quarantine. Let's be honest."

Nearly 4,900 people have died in the Ebola outbreak, most of them in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.

In other developments:

- One of the two Dallas nurses who caught Ebola from a patient was declared virus-free and released from a hospital in Bethesda, Maryland. Nina Pham, 26, said she felt "fortunate and blessed to be standing here today." She later met with President Barack Obama at the White House. The other nurse, Amber Vinson, is in an Atlanta hospital, where she was said to "making good progress."

- Millions of doses of two experimental Ebola vaccines could be ready for use in 2015, and five more experimental vaccines will start being tested in March, the World Health Organization said.

- In Mali, which reported its first case this week, authorities warned that many people are in danger because the toddler who brought the disease to the country was bleeding from her nose as she traveled on a bus from Guinea.

The World Health Organization is not recommending the quarantine of returning aid workers without symptoms, according to spokeswoman Sona Bari.

"Health care workers are generally self-monitoring and are aware of the need to report any symptoms, as this patient did," she wrote in an email.

Bruce Johnson, president of SIM USA, a Christian organization based in North Carolina, said its staffers are told to follow the CDC guidelines. Beyond that, he said, they are told to avoid crowded public areas.

He warned that such measures could discourage volunteers.

Nurses, doctors and others who hold down regular jobs back home would say, "I want to go over and help for a month, but now you're telling me that when I get back I can't go to work for 21 days?" Johnson said. "Yes, I think that will dampen the generous spirit of people in the U.S. who want to go help."

Johnson was echoed by Dr. Rick Sacra, a Massachusetts physician who was infected with Ebola while doing medical aid work in Liberia. He was evacuated to a specialized treatment center in Nebraska, recovered and was released last month.

"A three-week complete quarantine would eliminate two-thirds to three-quarters of the volunteers from the U.S." going to West Africa, he said. "They wouldn't be able to spare the time."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141024eaap006pr


Business
Don't bash the UK's economic recovery: we are still doing well
Allister Heath
662 words
25 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
38
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Business Comment

Not bad at all: that has to be the verdict on the UK's continuing strong economic growth. GDP expanded by 0.7pc in the third quarter of the year, a highly creditable performance given the crisis that is engulfing many other economies. Britain's GDP stands 3pc larger than it was a year ago. The economy faces plenty of threats, of course, but the nay–sayers should be ignored in this instance. These were good results.

Last quarter's growth was slower than the 0.9pc seen in the second quarter, of course, but the difference was not especially material. These sorts of figures inevitably get revised repeatedly and one or two tenths of a percentage point are not worth worrying about at this stage. It is also important for economies not to grow too quickly – and in the current climate, the second quarter's growth rate felt a tad unsustainable.

Crucially, the UK is doing far better than almost all other wealthy economies. In the second quarter, we expanded faster than all G7 nations bar the US (and we grew faster year on year); a similar pattern is likely in the third quarter. Excessive gloominess is therefore unwarranted, especially given that a trading nation such as ours is always bound to be dragged down by a slowdown or recession affecting our export markets.

The City is growing again; the output of business and financial services increased by 4.3pc over the past year. Overall, output increased by 0.7pc in services, 0.5pc in industrial production (including manufacturing), 0.8pc in construction and 0.3pc in agriculture, so growth was balanced.

There were two worries, however.

While services grew at the same rate as the overall economy during the quarter as a whole, the figures did suggest that the sector ground to a halt in September. This may merely be a statistical blip – or it could be the start of something much more worrying. Time will tell; at this stage it looks more like white noise.

Another potential issue is that government services increased their output by 0.3pc in the third quarter and by 1.3pc over the past year. These figures can be interpreted in one of two ways: either this is a case of profligacy remaining unchecked, fuelling the massive and growing budget deficit; or cuts are going hand in hand with productivity growth in the public sector, allowing the NHS, schools and the rest to do more with less. The reality is probably a bit of both. Reforms to procurement and others parts of the public sector have undoubtedly boosted efficiency, albeit from an appallingly low base.

Thanks in part to recent revisions to the way the economy is measured, GDP is now 3.4pc higher than it was at its pre–recession peak, driven almost entirely by services, which are up 7.2pc. The remaining problem, as John Hawksworth of PwC points out, is that the UK population has shot up even faster since the crisis and is now around 4.5pc larger than it was before the recession. GDP per person thus remains about 1pc lower than it was, which is one reason why the average person in Britain today has a smaller disposable income than in 2008.

Luckily, output per capita is rising pretty quickly again and is likely to be back in positive territory by the first quarter of next year. The question now is what happens over the next six months. There is a real risk that the stagnation in the eurozone, woes in Russia, the spectre of Ebola and the market turmoil may drag the UK down. To date, however, the British economy has proved to be surprisingly resilient – and long may that continue.

'A trading nation such as ours is always bound to be dragged down by a slowdown or recession'

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141025eaap0009b


Business
Astra rallies after Pfizer cash scare
Ben Martin
462 words
25 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
36
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Market report

ASTRAZENECA was in the spotlight amid speculation an $11bn (£6.8bn) share buyback by its former suitor, Pfizer, signalled the American company will not renew its pursuit of the Anglo–Swedish drugmaker.

Investors have been hoping the US group will revive its bid approach for the FTSE 100 company when Takeover Panel restrictions are lifted next month. Inevitably, then, the market's knee–jerk reaction yesterday to Pfizer's cash return announcement sent Astra shares down as much as 93p, on the assumption a takeover was not under consideration. But the stock rebounded after analysts at Citigroup told clients a deal was not off the table.

The buy–back has "zero significance" as to whether Pfizer will make a fresh offer for Astra, the Citi experts said, adding that there remains a "high probability" that the US company will bid again.

The repurchases can be halted "at any time" and Pfizer could also finance an Astra bid while the buy–back is ongoing, the analysts concluded, repeating their belief that the recent US Treasury crackdown on tax inversion takeovers would only have a limited impact on any potential deal. The reassuring message from Citi, combined with news the European Union regulator had given Astra's Olaparib ovarian cancer drug its backing, helped the drugmaker's shares stage a partial recovery and close down just 7p at £43.27½.

The FTSE 100 fell 30.42 points, or 0.5pc, to 6,388.73 as investors reacted to news of the first Ebola case in New York. Nervousness ahead of the European bank stress test results on Sunday also weighed on the index.

Travel shares were hurt by the renewed Ebola worries. InterContinental Hotels slid 43p to £22.17 and cruise operator Carnival declined as much as 36p before closing down 3p at to £23.49.

BT Group lost 6.6p to 370p after Morgan Stanley analysts stoked concern that its broadband rivals are gaining ground. There is also the risk BT could agree to pay £1bn a year for the television rights to the Premier League at the next auction, they said.

TalkTalk, which was lifted by market bid speculation a day earlier, was knocked back down again by Nomura analysts, who told clients they were "increasingly concerned" the broadband provider "would not be able to maintain the earnings momentum required to justify its valuation premium". The shares closed 5.1p lower at 286.4p.

Pearson slumped 30p to £11.39 on news its finance chief was stepping down after a decade at the education publisher. A trading update also unsettled investors, with Liberum saying the wording of the statement suggested Pearson was "preparing the market" for a downgrade to 2015 estimates.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141025eaap0008m


Editorial; Opinion, Columns
Our Establishment is running scared about historic sex abuse
CHARLES MOORE
1333 words
25 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
28
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Fiona Woolf was the victim of a kangaroo court – but she was wrong to take the job

Fiona Woolf, who has been appointed to chair the government inquiry into historic child abuse, was subjected to an interrogation on Tuesday. I strongly recommend watching the proceedings. They shed light on our weird current public culture.

Mrs Woolf appeared before the Home Affairs Select Committee of the House of Commons. She had a hard time. The essential charge against her was that she was a member of the "Establishment" and therefore (as if by iron logic) unsuitable for the task.

The committee thought she had a record as long as your arm. She is a former president of the Law Society. She is the current Lord Mayor of London. It was even held against her that she had recently led a Corporation of London delegation to Bahrain shortly after Amnesty International had published reports of child abuse in that country. (If such a visit was disgraceful, no delegations would ever come to Britain, since reports about child abuse here are published virtually every week.)

Then there was what a Left–wing lawyer on the BBC called "the evidence of dinner parties". As Mrs Woolf explained, she had, on five occasions, given or received dinner parties to or from her London neighbours, Lord and Lady Brittan. She felt it necessary to mention this because Lord Brittan, who was Home Secretary from 1983–5, is accused by some of having failed to deal adequately with allegations about child abuse by the late Geoffrey Dickens MP (though no one knows what these allegations were). On the fragile basis of these accusations, the present Home Secretary, Theresa May, chose to erect the whole enormous super–structure of this inquiry. Its remit is child abuse in all "state and non–state institutions" from 1970 to today, how it was reported and dealt with, and where those institutions failed.

Ah, the evidence of dinner parties. It was useless for Mrs Woolf, who knocked over a glass of water in her anxiety, to protest "I am not a member of the Establishment". Her explanation for the dinners, that "I was a newly elected alderman and I needed to build my City network" (Lady Brittan was a City of London magistrate) did not help either. Nor did her elaboration that she has "held hundreds of them [dinners] since". Nor did her desire to "lay to rest any fears that I had a close association with Lord Brittan", as if the poor man were the moral equivalent of an Ebola victim. In the eyes of the select committee, she was guilty.

Anyone not agreeable to the predominantly Labour membership of the committee and to the lobbies and law firms specialising in compensation which claim to speak for the victims of child abuse would have been found guilty too. These victims can be endlessly invoked – safe in the knowledge that we usually do not know who they are, or even whether they are victims at all – to say that they are not being heard, or, if heard, not believed. What the committee members and campaigners seek is an overarching theory of establishment abuse and cover–up, like the theory of police "institutional racism" invented by the Macpherson report into the Stephen Lawrence affair. They want findings of "institutional paedophilia", preferably centred on the Thatcher era. They will accept no inquiry chairman who will not give it to them.

If you think about what inquiries are, it is likely that they will be run by an "establishment" person. This is partly because lawyers, having the relevant skills, are usually selected. The law is a centralised profession, and, like all professions, it has fewer people at the top than the bottom. Top lawyers meet other top lawyers and, as the law (regrettably) becomes ever more important in public affairs generally, they also meet ministers, civil servants, leading business people, and so on.

Sometimes, it is true, such associations will compromise them, but on the whole they will be better on inquiries, boards, committees, tribunals if they know how these things work. To do so, it helps to know some of the people on them. A lawyer who had reached middle age without acquaintance with any of these processes and any pillars of the Establishment would probably not be very suitable to be in charge of them, just as the owner of a small petrol station would find it hard suddenly to chair the board of BP or a local paper reporter to become, overnight, the editor of the Daily Mail. The Establishment is not an organised conspiracy, but a vague word meaning people who are powerful in society. It frequently needs a kicking, but no country can avoid having one. Inquiries are classic establishment territory, and always will be.

The Home Affairs Select Committee knows this, of course. At the beginning of the hearing with Mrs Woolf, its chairman, the Labour MP Keith Vaz, declared an interest, which was that his wife is a former member of the Council of the Law Society. He is a former minister in the Lord Chancellor's Department. He is a member of the Establishment, a particularly suave one as it happens. Indeed, the antiestablishment game he was playing is itself a ploy – of the Labour bit of the Establishment. He can outplay poor Mrs Woolf.

Which leads me to my surprising conclusion about the kangaroo court which tried Mrs Woolf on Tuesday. Despite its outrageous bullying, the committee achieved something real. It exposed the fact that Mrs Woolf was frightened. Instead of justifying her wholly reasonable links with the Brittans, she ran scared of them. She made herself look cowardly in cultivating the Brittans' social acquaintance and then dropping them. Instead of defending her experience as a senior lawyer and as Lord Mayor, she protested she was "an ordinary citizen", which she ain't. She quoted Lady Butler–Sloss, who was forced out of the role she now occupies, as saying "I did not sufficiently consider my background". The same could be said of her – not that her background was unsuitable, but that she had not properly considered why she was the right person to conduct the inquiry. She thus showed that she is not.

The committee's doubt about Mrs Woolf turned out to be true. She reminded me of Lord Patten accepting the chairmanship of the BBC Trust, back in 2011. He seemed to think it was his due, rather like being chancellor of Oxford University, light on duties and heavy (that issue again) on dinners. He was not ready for the massive corporate problems (child abuse included) which afflict a huge state broadcasting organisation in the modern world. Mrs Woolf will, admittedly, get few dinners out of her inquiry. No doubt she sincerely wants to perform a public service, but she gave every impression of not understanding what that service is, and why its subject is so problematic.

The truth is that no one should accept Mrs May's poisoned chalice. This inquiry involves, to use Mrs Woolf's own phrase, "hundreds of institutions and thousands of failures". Even with the genuinely expert panel which the Home Office has belatedly assembled, the remit is dangerously wide. How can it get a grip on all government departments, police procedures, schools, hospitals, children's homes, churches, youth clubs, Scout groups, mental institutions etc over the past 40 years and more? The whole thing is driven by the main emotion that nowadays dominates our enfeebled Establishment – fear: in this case, the fear of being accused of ignoring or covering up child abuse.

People, including Mrs Woolf and Mrs May, keep saying that what matters most is what is best for the victims. That is right. If you subject this inquiry to that test, it fails.

Comment on Charles Moore's view at telegraph.co.uk/personalview

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141025eaap0008b


Business
MARKETS
37 words
25 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
37
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
60 SECOND BRIEFING

The FTSE fell yesterday but posted its strongest week since August, with concerns about the global economy and the spread of Ebola taking the wind out of a rally.

MARKET REPORT P36

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141025eaap0007d


News
Doctor is fourth Ebola case in America
David Millward
262 words
25 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
20
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
AN AMERICAN doctor who tested positive for the Ebola virus in New York passed through enhanced safety checks at JFK airport and lived in the city for more than seven days before being diagnosed with the disease.

Authorities in New York have begun trying to piece together the movements of Craig Spencer, a Médecins Sans Frontières doctor who is believed to have contracted the virus while working in West Africa.

Dr Spencer contacted New York's health authorities when he started showing symptoms, including a temperature of 100.3F (37.9C) after his return, and was taken to Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan, the city's designated Ebola centre.

Dr Spencer's 30–year–old fiancée, Morgan Dixon, and two friends have been placed in a 21–day quarantine as a precaution. Authorities are now tracking his travel on the city's subway through his MetroCard travel pass and will also use his credit card records to track shops and restaurants he visited.

Bill de Blasio, the mayor, and Andrew Cuomo, the state governor, sought yesterday to reassure eight million New Yorkers that they were not at risk.

Mr de Blasio said: "Being on the same subway car or living near someone with Ebola does not in itself put someone at risk."

The Dallas nurse who was the first person to contract Ebola in the US has recovered. Nina Pham, 26, became infected earlier this month while treating Thomas Eric Duncan, the first man to be diagnosed with the disease on US soil.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141025eaap0006s


NEWS
Mali's first Ebola case, a two-year-old girl, dies
By Agencies
742 words
24 October 2014
09:09 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Child recently returned from Guinea - one of the countries hardest hit by the disease

A two-year-old girl who was Mali's first case of Ebola died on Friday, shortly after the World Health Organization warned that many people had potentially been exposed to the virus because she was taken across the country while ill.

The girl had travelled with her grandmother hundreds of kilometres by bus from Guinea via Mali's capital to the western town of Kayes, where she was diagnosed on Thursday. Health workers were scrambling to trace hundreds of potential contacts in a bid to prevent Ebola taking hold in Mali.

The worst Ebola outbreak on record has killed 4,900 people, mainly in nearby Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea. A global response to the epidemic is being rolled out but experts warn that tens of thousands more people are at risk.

In a statement on Friday night, Mali's government confirmed the death of the girl, who has not been identified.

"In this moment of sadness, the government would like to express its condolences to her family and reminds the population that maintain very strict hygiene rules remains the best way to contain this disease," it said.

Mali is the sixth West African nation to record a case of Ebola. Senegal and Nigeria have successfully contained outbreaks and has been declared free of the disease. Spain and the United States have had a few cases.

Diplomatic sources have expressed concern about the preparedness of Mali, one of the world's poorest countries, to contain an outbreak. Home to a large U.N. peacekeeping mission, the mostly Muslim country is still battling northern Islamist militants after a brief French-led war last year.

WHO said that an investigation into the girl's case revealed that she had already started showing symptoms - and was therefore contagious - before being taken to Kayes.

"WHO is treating the situation in Mali as an emergency," the UN health agency said in a statement.

"The child's symptomatic state during the bus journey is especially concerning, as it presented multiple opportunities for exposures - including high-risk exposures - involving many people," it added.

The girl was seen by health workers on Oct. 20 in Kayes but was referred to another hospital the next day where she tested positive for typhoid but was also bleeding from her nose. It was not until Oct. 23 that she tested positive for Ebola, WHO said.

WHO said that 43 contacts had been identified and isolated but a second Malian health official, who asked not to be identified, told Reuters that authorities estimated that at least 300 people had been in contact with the infected child.

Hours before Mali confirmed the case on Thursday, WHO Assistant Director-General Keiji Fukuda said the agency had "reasonable confidence" that there was not widespread transmission of the Ebola virus into neighbouring countries.

WHO and Medical charity Medecins Sans Frontieres, which has helped run much of the response to Ebola, were both scrambling teams to Mali on Friday. A U.N. plane flew one tonne of medical supplies - including personnel protection equipment kits, gloves, face shields and buckets - to the country.

On the dusty streets of the capital Bamako, residents voiced alarm at the girl having spent time in the city's Bagadadji district before travelling on Sunday to Kayes, some 600 km to the northwest near the Senegalese border.

"I am afraid because, with my job, I am in permanent contact with people but I can't afford to just stop," said taxi driver Hamidou Bamba, 46, in Bamako. "Today is Friday so let us pray to Allah that this disease will not spread in Mali."

Mali, together with cocoa producer Ivory Coast, has put in place border controls to stop Ebola at its frontiers. However, a visit to Mali's border with Guinea by Reuters this month showed vehicles avoiding a health checkpoint set up by Malian authorities by simply driving through the bush.

Ivory Coast was on alert after Guinean authorities informed them that a Guinean health worker had slipped surveillance and headed for the border after a patient had contracted Ebola.

Raymonde Goudou Coffie, Ivory Coast's health minister, said the authorities did not know if the medic had Ebola but had to be traced as he had been in contact with someone who had.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141025eaap00001


NEWS
Both the EU and Cameron must come clean about the origins of this outrageous bill
By Tim Stanley
433 words
24 October 2014
11:09 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The EU budget bill has shocked British voters. But so too should the Treasury's strange delay in telling the Prime Minister about it.

The EU budget bill that has just been handed to the UK[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/eu/11184044/EU-makes-Britain-pay-for-recovery.html] raises questions not only about the organisation of the EU but also about the competence of this Government. At his post-summit press conference, David Cameron gave off an air of “quite a bit of anger” in his classically understated way – it sounded like he was dictating a letter of complaint about conditions in a foreign hotel. And, yes, the UK has a lot to be angry about given that:

- While Britain is being asked to pay an extra £1.7 billion, the contributions of both France and Germany (who have economies technically larger than ours) are being cut. Moreover, countries that are obviously suffering are also being forced to pay more, such as Italy and Greece.

- Incredibly, no one has yet detailed how the bill was calculated. There are at least two possible explanations, and the Prime Minister seemed all at sea about which is correct.

But Cameron’s anger was disingenuous. While he continuously said that Britain would not pay the bill by the due date, he did not rule out paying the bill altogether. He is angry about timing, not so much the matter of scale - about which he can probably do nothing.

Moreover, and this is utterly bizarre, he appeared to concede that while he only found out about the bill on Thursday night, the Treasury already knew of its existence for some time. Why was the PM not told – if he wasn’t told? Did the Treasury or other members of the Government perhaps hope that the press and public would not notice the budget increase? Is a fuss only now being made because the media has run with it as a front page story? Or was there some strange breakdown in communication within the Government that meant the Treasury was calmly running a bill for £1.7 billion through its computers while a blissfully unaware PM was chatting about Ebola with his European partners?

By the way, this isn’t the last bill coming our way. Apparently, officials have warned that reforms to accounting will apply next year and could amount to a further bill to the UK for 1 billion euros. The EU is, in the PM's words, being exposed as the rarified counting house of "heartless technocrats and bureaucrats".

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141024eaao003jt


NEWS
Meet the man who tamed Nigeria's most lawless city
By Colin Freeman Chief foreign correspondent
1648 words
24 October 2014
09:28 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Babatunde Fashola, governor of Lagos, has transformed the city - and helped halt the spread of Ebola in Nigeria

He famously claims to be "just doing his job". But in a land where politicians are known for doing anything but, that alone has been enough to make Babatunde Fashola, boss of the vast Nigerian city of Lagos, a very popular man.

Confounding the image of Nigerian leaders as corrupt and incompetent, the 51-year-old governor has won near-celebrity status for transforming west Africa's biggest city, cleaing up its crime-ridden slums and declaring war on corrupt police and civil servants.

Next month, he will come to London to meet business leaders and Mayor Boris Johnson's officials, wooing investors with talk of how he has spent the last seven years building new transport hubs and gleaming business parks.

Yet arguably his biggest achievement in office took place just last week, and was done without a bulldozer in sight. That was when his country was officially declared free of Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/nigeria/11175725/Ebola-crisis-Nigeria-free-of-deadly-virus-say-health-chiefs.html], which first spread to Nigeria[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/nigeria/] three months ago when Patrick Sawyer, an infected Liberian diplomat, flew into Lagos airport.

Health officials had long feared that the outbreak, which has already claimed nearly 5,000 lives elsewhere in west Africa, would reach catastrophic proportions were it to spread through Lagos. One of the largest cities in the world, it is home to an estimated 17 million people, many of them living in sprawling shanty towns that would have become vast reservoirs for infection. To make matters worse, when the outbreak first happened, medics were on strike.

Instead, Mr Fashola turned a looming disaster into a public health and PR triumph. Breaking off from a trip overseas, he took personal charge of the operation to track down and quarantine nearly 1,000 people feared to have been infected since Mr Sawyer's arrival.

Last week, what would have been a formidably complex operation in any country came to a successful end, when the World Health Organisation announced that since Nigeria had had no new cases for six weeks, it was now officially rid of the virus.

"This is a spectacular success story," said Rui Gama Vaz, a WHO spokesman, who prompted an applause when he broke the news at a press conference in Nigeria on Tuesday. "It shows that Ebola can be contained."

The WHO announcement was a rare glimmer of hope in the fight against Ebola, and even rarer vote of confidence in a branch of the Nigerian government, which was heavily criticised over its response to the abduction of more than 200 schoolgirls by the Boko Haram insurgent group in April. As a columninst in Nigeria's Leadership newspaper put it last week: "For once, we did not underachieve."

For Mr Fashola's many supporters, it is also yet more proof that the 51-year-old ex-lawyer is a future president in the making, a much-needed technocrat in a country dominated far too long by ageing "Big Men" and ex-generals.

"He is the best governor we have ever had," said Odun Babalola, a Lagos-based pension fund portfolio manager. "He's made a lot of progress in schools, railways, and infrastructure, and unlike a lot of politicians, who are corrupt, he's a good administrator."

True, the successful tackling of the Ebola outbreak was not Mr Fashola's doing alone. For a start, the doctor's strike that was under way when Mr Sawyer collapsed at Lagos airport turned out to be a blessing in disguise. Rather than being taken to one of Lagos's vast public hospitals, where he might have languished for hours and infected numerous fellow patients and staff, he was instead admitted to a private clinic. There he was seen by a sharp-eyed consultant, Stella Adadevoh, who spotted that his symptoms were not malaria as had been first thought.

She then alerted the Nigerian health ministry, and along with other doctors physically restrained Sawyer when he became aggressive and tried to leave the hospital to fly to another Nigerian city. Her quick thinking help stop the virus being spread more widely, but also cost her her life: she caught Ebola herself while treating Mr Sawyer, and has now been recommended for a national award.

But even by the time Mr Sawyer had been isolated, the virus was already on the loose. Knowing that he had passed through one of the busiest airports in west Africa, health officials had to try to track down every single person who had potentially been infected by him, including the other passengers on his flight. The list started at 281 people and grew to nearly 1,000. as eight others whom he turned out to have passed the virus to subsequently died.

That was where Mr Fashola stepped in. He broke off from a pilgrimage to Mecca, flew home and then helped set up an Ebola Emergency Operations Centre, which spearheaded the mammoth task of monitoring all those potentially infected. A team of 2,000 officials were trained for the task, who ended up knocking on 26,000 doors. At one point the governor was being briefed up to ten times a day by disease control experts. He made a point of visiting the country's Ebola treatment centre, a way of communicating to the Nigerian public that they should not panic needlessly.

"Command and control is very important in fighting disease outbreaks, and he provided effective leadership," said Dr Ike Anya, a London-based Nigerian public health expert. "He also said exactly the right things, urging for the need to keep calm. Regardless of whether you support his politics, he has been very effective as a governor and I would be happy to see him stand for leadership."

Born into a prominent Muslim family but married to a Christian, Mr Fashola trained as a lawyer and went into politics after being appointed chief of staff by the previous Lagos governor, Asiwaju Tinubu, a powerful politician often described as Mr Fashola's "Godfather". But while he has long enjoyed the backing of a political "Big Man", is his role as a rare defender of Nigeria's "Little Men" that has won him most support.

Once, while driving through Lagos in his convoy, he famously stopped an army colonel who was driving illegally in one of the governor's newly-built bus lanes, berating him in front of television cameras.

"The bus is for those who cannot afford to buy cars," he said. "I want a zero tolerance of lawlesness, and those who don't want to comply can leave our state."

It was one of the first times Nigerians had ever seen a civil servant confronting a member of the security forces, whose fondness for committing crime rather than fighting it has long contributed to Lagos's legendary reputation for lawlessness.

Armed robberies - sometimes by moonlighting police - used to be so common that few people ventured out after dark. Foreign businessmen would routinely travel with armed escorts, and the few willing to live there would stay mainly in a heavily-guarded diplomatic area called Victoria Island, a rough equivalent to Baghdad's Green Zone. Add to that the suffocating smog, widespread squalor and regular three-hour traffic jams, and it was no suprise that the city had a reputation as one of the worst places in the world to live.

Today, much of the problems remain. But members of the vast Nigerian diaspora say they now notice big changes whenever they go back. "When you return you see an absolute difference - things have improved 100 per cent," said Nels Abbey, a London-based Nigerian journalist and businessman. "Traffic is not what it used to be, bus lanes have been introduced, and it feels a lot safer. Fashola has been like a Tory mayor for Lagos - he is trying to make it attractive to the well-off."

Styling himself as Lagos's answer to Boris Johnson has not endeared him to everyone. As well as laying plans for a vast offshore business park intended as an "African Dubai", he has accelerated programs to clear the ever-expanding shanty towns, ordering their occupants to return to their homes in Nigeria's poorest east and north. That has led to criticism from human rights groups, although others say it is hard to see how Lagos will ever improve otherwise. "Do I endorse it?" said Mr Nels. "I am afraid it is a bit of a necessary evil."

Another big achievement has been increasing tax revenues, vital in a city where the GDP of $43 billion makes it the fifth-biggest economy in sub-Saharan Africa. Mr Fashola has tried to sweeten the pill by putting up signs on all new infrasructure projects, saying "paid for by your taxes". It is a rare acknowledgement of gratitude in a country where a guaranteed stream of state oil wealth has historically allowed rulers to remain aloof from the ruled.

However, despite being relected with 80 per cent of the vote in 2011, the main hailed as Nigeria's brightest political hope in years is far from guaranteed a life in office. Having served two terms in office already, he is not allowed to run as Lagos governor again. And as a member of a minority tribe and the country's opposition All Progressives Congress, he currently lacks the political backing to go head to head against Goodluck Jonathan in next year's elections.

In the meantime, fresh from ridding Lagos of Ebola, he is focusing on an arguably even tougher challenge, launching a new initiative to stop motorists stuck in traffic jams from blasting their horns all day. As he put it: "If we can overcome Ebola, then we can overcome noise pollution."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141024eaao00339


FINANCE
Ebola: New York case rattles markets
By Denise Roland
376 words
24 October 2014
06:03 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Asian markets lose gains overnight after first New York case of deadly virus is confirmed

New York's first confirmed Ebola case[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11184292/New-York-doctor-becomes-fourth-to-be-diagnosed-with-Ebola-in-US.html] has sent a chill through markets.

Asian bourses reversed gains overnight and US stock futures indicate Wall Street is heading into negative territory.

European bourses meanwhile have started the day in the red. The FTSE 100 fell 0.7pc on the open before recovering some poise and trading down 0.2pc in mid-morning deals. Germany's Dax and France's Cac were both down 0.6pc on Friday morning.

The MSCI's broadest index of shares outside Japan ended its session down 0.2pc after a mixed night for Asian stocks, despite a strong close on Wall Street on Thursday.

Mike van Dulken, head of research at Accendo Markets, said news that a doctor who returned to New York City from West Africa tested positive for the deadly virus "took the wind from future markets and put optimism in check".

In London, travel-related stocks came under pressure amid concern the spread of Ebola could hit hotels, airlines and holiday operators. InterContinental Hotels fell 1.8pc, cruise operator Carnival slid 1.2pc and TUI Travel was down 0.9pc.

S&P 500 mini futures fell as much as 0.7pc, slipping from two-week highs hit the previous day on budding optimism from corporate earnings and the global economy.

Safe haven assets such as US Treasuries also climbed on the news.

"Just when markets got some relief on the world economy, we had this news. Obviously people who have just made bullish bets (on the economy) will close their positions as no one can tell exactly what is going to happen," the head of currency trading at a Western bank's Tokyo branch told Reuters.

A doctor who recently returned to the US from treating Ebola patients in West Africa has become the fourth person in the country to be diagnosed with the disease.

The New York case came just hours after Mali became the sixth West African country to be affected by the disease, when a two-year-old girl who had recently been in Guinea tested positive for the virus.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141024eaao0012x


NEWS
US faces difficult challenge containing Ebola in America's largest city
By Agencies
652 words
24 October 2014
05:50 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Doctor who returned to NYC from West Africa with a fever tests positive for Ebola, sparking concern of how to contain it in country's most populated city

As a New York City doctor tests positive for Ebola after volunteering in West Africa, health officials face the challenge of deciding how wide a net to cast for his possible contacts in the largest, most crowded city in the United States.

Dr. Craig Spencer, an emergency doctor who was working with Doctors Without Borders in Ebola-stricken Guinea earlier this month, returned to the city last Friday.

Since then, city officials say, he visited a city park, had a meal at a restaurant, visited a Brooklyn bowling alley, took at least three subway trains and went for a three-mile run.

A New York health official involved in the case told Reuters that the focus will be on finding people who have had close contact with Spencer.

Dr. Mary Travis Bassett, the city's health commissioner, said at a press conference that Spencer had only come in close contact with two friends and his fiancee, all of whom seemed fine but had now been quarantined.

Officials had spoken to a taxi driver who had given Spencer a ride on Wednesday but did not consider him at risk.

Officials will not undertake the likely impossible task of tracking down every last commuter who rode the same subway trains as Spencer because the chance any of them had caught Ebola was "probably close to nil," she said.

The worst Ebola outbreak on record has killed at least 4,877 people in West Africa since March, with a small number of infections detected outside Africa. The first patient to be diagnosed on U.S. soil, Liberian traveler Thomas Duncan, arrived in late September and died on Oct. 8. Two nurses who treated him fell ill.

Since then, U.S. hospitals have been on high alert, with dozens of suspected cases evaluated for the deadly virus. Spencer is the first confirmed case in New York City.

The city will follow guidelines laid down by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which says that Ebola is transmitted by contact with the bodily fluids, such as vomit or sweat, of a person sick with the disease.

Dr. Gavin Macgregor-Skinner, an expert in public health at Pennsylvania State University, helped advise officials in the densely populated Nigerian city of Lagos. Nigeria was declared Ebola-free on Monday.

Macgregor-Skinner said it will be important that public health officials cast as wide a net as possible for Spencer's contacts.

"We believe the more people you had in contact tracing, the more confident people are that public health is doing the job it is set up to do," he said.

Experts said the fact that Spencer is an experienced doctor who had knowledge of dealing with Ebola was encouraging.

Doctors Without Borders said it had guidelines for staff returning from Ebola assignments that included regularly self-monitoring for signs of illness. A spokesman for the humanitarian group did not respond to a request for more details.

"From what I understand, immediately upon getting symptoms, this patient isolated himself, so his circle of contacts is going to be very small," said Dr. Amesh Adalja, a public health expert with the Infectious Diseases Society of America who is not involved in Spencer's case.

New York City's health department has a deep experience with containing illnesses, not least those that arrive through its busy airports. Before becoming director of CDC in 2009, Thomas Frieden ran the department.

"It's kind of bread and butter for New York to do that kind of work," Adalja said. "They are a model for the nation because they have a larger burden of the nation's tuberculosis cases."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141024eaao001e1


NEWS
The 'Saatchi Bill' is dangerous and will bring nothing but harm
By Peter Oborne and Anne Williams
1141 words
24 October 2014
05:15 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Quacks, Big Pharma and insurance firms will benefit from the Saatchi Bill - not doctors and certainly not patients

Lord Saatchi is rightly regarded as a national treasure. In his early days he was the advertising genius who played a fundamental role in selling the Thatcherite message. Since then he has established himself as a philanthropist, public figure and all round good egg.

In 2011 his wife, Josephine Hart died from cancer. They were a wonderful, warm and abundantly talented couple. It was extraordinarily moving to meet these two long-married, late-middle-aged people who were so clearly in love.

The death of Josephine has driven Maurice Saatchi to press forward with his Medical Innovation Bill[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/health/saatchi-bill/], which will be debated in the House of Lords today. Lord Saatchi's motives are typical of the inherent decency of the man. He wanted his wife’s death to mean something, and believed doctors should be able to experiment when the disease is fatal. His aim is to replace despair with hope and to prolong lives wherever possible.

The bill has been greeted with immense fanfare. Indeed the impressive PR campaign waged in support of the Bill has become a media blitz. A media-savvy team has of course set up Twitter and Tumblr accounts, a Facebook page, a petition on change.org – all now standard tools in the marshalling of public opinion. Just as striking is the depth of the media coverage achieved on BBC One, Radio 4, Radio 2, ITV, and in the pages of this newspaper and others. A few days ago Jeremy Hunt, the Health Secretary, added to the sense of momentum by flinging his department’s weight behind the bill. With such high-level backing it must now have every chance of becoming law.

We believe, however, that Lord Saatchi's well-intentioned measure would be a terrible mistake. Let’s drown out the sound of the media campaign and ask why it is so many expert bodies believe that Lord Saatchi’s proposals would bring about nothing but harm.

The Bill has failed to win the support of The British Medical Association, The Motor Neurone Disease Association, the Royal College of Physicians, the Royal College of Surgeons, the Medical Research Society, the Royal College of Radiologists, The Medical Defence Union, the Academy of Medical Sciences, the Royal College of Pathologists, the Royal College of General Practitioners, the Academy for Healthcare Science, the Wellcome Trust, Action Against Medical Accidents, and patient advocacy charities Health Watch and the Nightingale Collaboration, among others. Conservative MP Sarah Wollaston, a former GP, has "very serious concerns" about it.

The PR campaign distorts the facts, exploiting ignorance and desperation to plant false hope in the rich soil of multiple fallacies. The Bill does not apply only to people who "have run out of other options" as Saatchi’s campaign director Dominic Nutt wrote in this paper yesterday. It applies to all patients and to any ailment, no matter how trivial, and strips them of existing protections against bad practice. It grants no rights to patients that they do not already have, and it is worth pointing out that the Saatchi Bill was not needed for NHS doctors to swiftly treat an Ebola patient with an un-trialled drug, or to test an un-trialled vaccine on valiant volunteers.

If patients don’t benefit from the Bill, and doctors don’t and medical innovation doesn’t, who does?

Will the Medical Innovation Bill help patients?[http://polldaddy.com/poll/8395494/]

Pharmaceutical companies stand to profit greatly. They are always looking to expand the market for existing drugs, especially drugs that are out-of-patent and competing with less expensive generic versions. "Innovative" use – i.e., prescribing them for different conditions or types of patients – is much cheaper and faster than developing new drugs.

What’s more, the Saatchi Bill has no provision for the collation of results. So if it turns out, for example, that a drug previously taken only by adults is harmful for children, or that a treatment typically prescribed for men over 60 causes an astronomical rise in, say, diabetes when used by women in their 40s, the evidence of this will be blurred and easily hidden. As will evidence of effectiveness. The Bill actually diminishes the chances of serendipitously stumbling across a cure, while hindering research and further reducing the incentive to develop new medicines.

Providers of private health insurance will benefit. If you can afford the premiums, you can jump the queue, as the NHS comes under relentless pressure to provide risky, inappropriate, or useless treatments at enormous cost.

Quacks will be given free rein. No "treatment" is so loopy (or potentially dangerous) that the Saatchi Bill won’t protect doctors who prescribe or administer it from prosecution.

In an article for this paper last May[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/health/saatchi-bill/10798826/Saatchi-Bill-People-power-drives-the-fight-to-cure-cancer.html] , Lord Saatchi makes the astonishing assertion that: ‘‘In democratic politics, perception is reality. If the people perceive a problem, there is one.’

In other words, there is no such thing as objective reality, so instead of addressing and correcting a misperception, a false solution to a non-existent problem has been concocted, with perhaps the assistance of those who stand to gain. Sadly, this is not those members of the public whose misguided support has been stirred up to lend legitimacy to the whole endeavour.

The National Health Service has, over a period of 66 years, nurtured in the British medical profession and bestowed upon the country as a whole an ethos in sharp contrast to that which prevails in, for instance, the United States, where 1 in 4 children is medicated long-term with prescription drugs, 10 times as many people die each year from prescribed and properly administered drugs as from illegal drugs, and patients with health insurance are routinely subjected to unnecessary tests and procedures.

It may be, and one hopes it is, the case that the many peers, cabinet ministers, shadow cabinet ministers, and MPs with financial interests in the health care industry will be entirely uninfluenced by their interests (or plans for future employment) in considering the Bill. And equally unswayed by a penchant for alternative medicine. But the clamour of constituents incited by a powerful media campaign will be hard to resist.

The enthusiastic collaboration of so much of the British media in promoting the Saatchi Bill has been troubling. Is it based on scientific ignorance, an inability to think critically or to investigate properly? A predilection for emotionally charged stories? The power of vested interests? Or all of the above?

The propagation of falsehoods and fallacies surrounding and arising from this Bill will have a corrosive effect on medical ethics and society as a whole.

This is a wretched way to run a country.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141024eaao0012z


NEWS
New York doctor rushed to hospital in suspected case of Ebola
By David Millward US Correspondent
366 words
24 October 2014
04:28 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A doctor who returned to the United States from West Africa with a fever is tested for Ebola at a New York City hospital

Update: New York mayor confirms doctor tests positive for Ebola

A doctor who was treating Ebola patients in Africa has been rushed to a hospital in New York City after reportedly developing symptoms consistent with the disease.

Craig Spencer, 33, who returned to the United States 10 days ago, was reported to be suffering from nausea and a 103-degree fever.

His flat in Harlem was sealed off and police extended the cordon to surrounding streets.

Police and emergency services workers wore protective clothing as a precaution.

He was taken to Bellevue hospital in Manhattan, where precautions are already in place for dealing with suspected Ebola cases.

Dr Spencer had been working with doctors without frontiers in Guinea treating patients with the disease.

He is understood to have travelled to New York via Brussels.

A spokesman for the city’s health department said that it was carrying out tests because of Dr Spencer’s symptoms, travel history and work he had been doing.

The results of the tests should be known within 12 hours.

In the meantime efforts are underway to contact anyone who has been in contact with Dr Spencer, amid fears that they could be at risk of having contracted the disease.

“The Health Department staff has established protocols to identify, notify, and, if necessary, quarantine any contacts of Ebola cases,” a spokesman said.

Should the tests prove positive, Dr Spencer will be the fourth patient to be diagosed with the disease in the United States.

One, Thomas Eric Duncan, a Liberian, has since died. There were fears for the nurses who treated him in Dallas.

One nurse, Amber Vinson, who tested positive for the virus has since been declared Ebola free and Nina Pham’s condition has been upgraded from fair to good.

Meanwhile six West Africans who recently arrived in the United states have been placed under a 21-day quarantine at West Haven, Connecticut, 78 miles north of New York.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141023eaan006mx


NEWS
New York doctor becomes fourth to be diagnosed with Ebola in US
By Josie Ensor US Correspondent
707 words
24 October 2014
04:28 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Doctor who returned to US from West Africa with a fever tests positive for Ebola at a New York City hospital

A doctor who recently returned to the US from treating Ebola patients in West Africa has become the fourth person in the country to be diagnosed with the disease.

Craig Spencer, 33, who returned from Guinea nine days ago, was admitted to Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan with a temperature of 39.4-degrees Celsius, presenting a fever and diarrhea.

Initial tests for the disease returned positive, according to city officials.

Dr Spencer had been working for a month with Doctors without Borders in Guinea - one of three West African nations hardest hit by Ebola.

He arrivied back in the US on Oct. 14 on a flight that stopped in Brussels.

He began to feel ill on Tuesday but did not develop a fever until Thursday morning, when he informed the authorities.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) advises those returning from Ebola-hit countries to monitor their health for a 21-day incubation period, remoting any symptoms to authorities.

Bill de Blasio, the city's mayor, confirmed Dr Spencer's positive test at a late-night press conference, but urged residents not to panic, insisting the city was fully prepared to stop the disease in its tracks.

"We want to state at the outset, (this) is no reason for New Yorkers to be alarmed. Ebola is an extremely hard disease to contract. It is transmitted only through contact with an infected person's blood or other bodily fluids," said Mr de Blasio.

“Being on the same subway car or living near a person with Ebola does not in itself put someone at risk,” he said.

New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said city officials had already identified four people believed to have crossed paths with Dr Spencer, and said he did not expect a repeat of the situation in Dallas, where hospital staff appeared to have been caught off-guard by the arrival of the disease that has killed almost 4,900 people in West Africa.

"Dallas was caught before they could really prepare. We had the advantage of learning from their experience," he said.

Dr Spencer’s apartment in Harlem was sealed off and medical staff arrived wearing hazmat suits to take him to hospital.

It emerged he travelled from Manhattan to Brooklyn on the subway on Wednesday night, when he went to a bowling alley and then took an Uber taxi home.

His fiancee and two friends, with whom he has had close contact, are healthy and being quarantined, while the taxi driver is not considered to be at risk.

NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia University Medical Center said the doctor was on its staff but had not been to work there since returning from Africa.

"He is a committed and responsible physician who always puts his patients first," it said in a statement. "Our thoughts are with him, and we wish him all the best at this time."

Health officials say the chances of the average New Yorker contracting Ebola are slim.

Bellevue Hospital has been designated the city's main venue for handling Ebola cases. It has dozens of staff members at the ready and four isolation rooms that can quickly expand to 20 if needed.

Ebola, which is spread through contact with an infected person's bodily fluids, has killed thousands of people in Africa. Only four people have been diagnosed in the US.

One, Thomas Eric Duncan, a Liberian, has since died.

One nurse, Amber Vinson, who tested positive for the virus has since been declared Ebola free and Nina Pham’s condition has been upgraded from fair to good.

Meanwhile six West Africans who recently arrived in the United states have been placed under a 21-day quarantine at West Haven, Connecticut.

Confirmation of the New York case came just hours after Mali reported its first confirmed case of the disease, when a two-year-old girl who had recently been in Guinea tested positive for the virus.

Mali has become the sixth West African country to be affected by the disease.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141024eaao0002t


NEWS
Mali sees first case of Ebola to become sixth West African country affected
By Agencies
138 words
24 October 2014
02:55 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Authorities diagnose two-year-old girl who recently returned from Guinea with the disease

Mali has confirmed its first case of Ebola after a two-year-old girl, who had recently been in Guinea, tested positive for the virus.

The child was brought to a hospital in the Malian town of Kayes on Wednesday, and her blood sample tested positive for the virus.

Mali becomes the sixth West African country to report an Ebola case - though nearly all the cases and deaths have occurred in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea.

Senegal and Nigeria had imported cases though both have now been declared Ebola-free.

The World Health Organisation says the disease has killed at least 4,877 people and infected 9,936.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141023eaan007by


News
Cameron names nations that give less than Ikea for Ebola aid
Matthew Holehouse; Raf Sanchez
707 words
24 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
22
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
DAVID CAMERON last night rounded on the leaders of 18 European nations that have each donated less to the fight against Ebola than Ikea, the Swedish furniture chain.

In an attempt to shame European leaders into action, the Prime Minister used a dinner at the European Council last night to announce he was increasing Britain's aid to west Africa by £80million.

Amid mounting anger in Downing Street at Europe's refusal to take the crisis seriously, the Prime Minister warned his counterparts that their economies are imperilled by their refusal to respond to the emergency at source before the disease spreads.

He pointed out that Britain's contribution to the crisis so far – £125million – is more than the combined total of 19 of Europe's 28 states.

Increasing that total to £205million means Britain is shouldering the lion's share of the European fund to fight the virus. Mr Cameron has set a target of £800 million for all of Europe, of which £670 million has so far been pledged. If the target is hit, Britain could be prepared to increase its contribution further, government sources said.

The Prime Minister indicated his frustration over the response to Ebola as he fights an attempt by the European Parliament to hike the EU's budget by £5.4billion, in defiance of his call for cuts. Brussels must be "ruthless" with taxpayers' money and "prioritise" at a time when families are cutting back, he believes.

The extra British money for Ebola will fund 200 field hospitals to treat Ebola in remote areas of Sierra Leone. Some £10million will be spent on the safe burial of bodies, as traditional funerals are a significant factor in the spread of the disease.

Ikea has given £3.9million to Ebola aid funds during the crisis. Mr Cameron told the leaders over dinner that is more than the sums pledged by countries including Austria, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Luxembourg, Poland and Spain.

It is apparent that some countries "obviously don't feel massive ties" to Africa, a Government source said. Sierra Leone is a former British colony.

Mr Cameron told his counterparts to be "really clear about the risks" that Ebola posed as the "biggest public health emergency we face". He warned that the "crisis" of Ebola must urgently be tackled "at source".

Mr Cameron was also last night expected to issue an especially withering rebuke to Mariano Rajoy, the Spanish prime minister, whose country saw the first transmission of Ebola in Europe.

"It's interesting to see a case like Spain, that has seen the stark realities of dealing with Ebola, yet we are contributing 50 times more than Spain. It's for countries to reflect on what they can be spending," said a source. Meanwhile, a British–American cameramancured of Ebola has been released from hospital but said he has "a heavy feeling" knowing thousands of other sufferers are languishing without care in Africa.

Ashoka Mukpo, 33, said it was painful to know he received state–of–the–art treatment in Nebraska while people in Liberia were dying. "It's a heavy feeling," he told NBC News. "I don't know if guilt is the right word. But just feels like something isn't right about that."

Mr Mupko spoke for the first time as US scientists warn today that the epidemic is likely to explode by the middle of December in west Africa. As many as 171,000 fatalities are possible in Liberia alone by Dec 15, the Yale University–led team warned, representing 12 per cent of the country's population. Mali last night said it had detected its first case of Ebola, making it the sixth West African country to be touched by the deadly haemorrhagic fever. A two–year–old girl who had recently arrived from neighbouring Guinea, where the outbreak began, tested positive. An American doctor who was treating Ebola patients in Africa has been rushed to a hospital in New York City after reportedly developing symptoms consistent with the disease.

Craig Spencer, 33, who returned to the US 10 days ago from Guinea, is being tested at Bellevue hospital in Manhattan.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141024eaao0007a


NEWS
American TV networks criticised for sensational coverage of the Ottawa shooting
By Harriet Alexander
603 words
23 October 2014
11:03 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
America's coverage of the Ottawa shooting has been criticised for being sensationalist, while Canada's was rational and calm

The American television networks' coverage of Wednesday's shooting in Ottawa has been strongly criticised on social media, with viewers praising the rational approach taken instead by the Canadians.

While CNN's headling was "Terrified capital", in Canada they stated: "Soldier dies after Parliament Hill attack: gunman also shot dead".

"The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation today gave a master class in calm, credible breaking news reporting," begun a report on the website Mother Jones [http://www.motherjones.com/mixed-media/2014/10/cbc-ottawa-shootings-cable-news] .

Twitter: Josh Labelle - Comparing the CBC's coverage to CNN's should be how we illustrate why a well-funded public broadcaster is in everyone's interests.Twitter: Josh Labelle - The difference wasn't CBC's Canadian-ness, but that it wasn't for profit, infotainment coverage.

Jim Sciutto, CNN's chief national security correspondent, tweeted with admiration:

Twitter: Jim Sciutto - Breaking coverage of #OttawaShooting [https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23OttawaShooting] playing out in two languages: English & French. Normal for Canada, otherworldly for US

On Twitter, a woman by the name of Anna noted how the two countries' coverage differed:

Twitter: Anna - lol watching American and Canadian news channels side by side. America-focus on the shooter and terror. Canada-focus on the solider killed

The CBC's anchor, Peter Mansbridge, was particularly credited for his thoughtful live coverage of a confusing situation.

He said, on Wednesday morning: "And so, the situation is, as we say, tense and unclear. And it's on days like this - we keep reminding you of this and it's important - it's on days like this, where a story takes a number of different pathways, a number of changes occur, and often rumors start in a situation like this.

"We try to keep them out of our coverage, but when they come, sometimes from official sources, like members of parliament, you tend to give them some credence. But you carefully weigh it with what we're also witnessing.

"It's clear that the situation is not over. It is clear the police are in an intense standby situation and continue to be on the lookout, and until somebody blows the all-clear on this we will continue to stay on top of it and watch as the events unfold."

He thanked his followers on Thursday for their warm praise of his reporting.

Twitter: Peter Mansbridge - We have been inundated with some very nice comments about our coverage today. This is just to say we appreciate every one. Thankyou so much.

In an editorial in Canada's Globe and Mail newspaper, the rational tone continued [http://m.theglobeandmail.com/globe-debate/editorials/after-the-attack-were-still-canada/article21248043/?service=mobile] .

"And yet, we kind of like Canada the way it is. We suspect that you do too.

"You can’t just walk into the Parliament Buildings without some security screening, and that’s as it should be. But, for example, the lawn in front of Parliament is an open, public space. On a nice day, people are out playing frisbee, doing yoga, taking pictures, sometimes protesting and generally enjoying the freedom of life in Canada, the freest of countries. The same goes for our various provincial legislatures. This is the land of peace, order, good government – and freedom."

And a media analysis account said that some of America's networks would, no doubt, react excessively to the news of the raised terror threat.

Twitter: TheDailyNewsHack - Canada's terror threat level has just been raised. The news channels will need new, EXTRA-scary theme music to cover both Ebola and this.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141023eaan003mm


NEWS
David Cameron rounds on European leaders who spend less fighting Ebola than Ikea
By Matthew Holehouse Political Correspondent
559 words
23 October 2014
06:00 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
David Cameron uses dinner at European summit to announce he is increasing Britain's aid to West Africa by £80million

David Cameron has rounded on the leaders of 18 European nations that have each donated less to the fight against Ebola than Ikea, the flatpack furniture chain.

In a bid to shame European leaders into action, the Prime Minister used a dinner at the European Council to announce he was increasing Britain's aid to West Africa by £80 million.

Amid mounting anger in Downing Street at Europe's refusal to take the crisis seriously, the Prime Minister warned his counterparts that their economies are imperilled by their refusal to respond to the emergency at source before the disease spreads.

He pointed out that Britain's contribution to the crisis so far – £125 million – is more than the combined total of 19 of Europe's 28 states.

Increasing that total to £205 million means Britain is shouldering the lion's share of the European fund to fight the virus. Mr Cameron has set a target of £800 million for all of Europe, of which £670 has so far been pledged. If the target is hit, Britain could be prepared to increase its contribution further, Government sources said.

The Prime Minister's frustration over the response to Ebola comes as he fights an attempt by the European Parliament to hike the EU's budget by £5.4 billion, in defiance of his call for cuts. Brussels must be "ruthless" with taxpayers' money and "prioritise" at a time when families are cutting back, he believes.

The extra British money for Ebola will fund 200 field hospitals to treat Ebola in remote areas of Sierra Leone. Some £10 million will be spent on the safe burial of bodies, as traditional funerals are a significant factor in the spread of the disease.

Ikea, the Swedish furniture giant, has given £3.9 million to the crisis. Mr Cameron told the leaders over dinner that is more than the sums pledged by countries including Austria, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Luxembourg, Poland and Spain.

It is apparent that some countries "obviously don't feel massive ties" to Africa, a Government source said. Sierra Leone is a former British colony.

Mr Cameron told his counterparts to be "really clear about the risks" that Ebola posed as a "biggest public health emergency we face." He warned that the "crisis" of Ebola must urgently be tackled "at source".

"Unless we do more to tackle it there, it will pose a risk to us here. This isn't just a humanitarian and a health issue, this could have impact on the economy," a source said.

"A furniture store is putting in more than 18 European countries have put on the table. We can all do more and we should be doing more."

Mr Cameron was last night expected to issue an especially withering rebuke to Mariano Rajoy, the Spanish Prime Minister, whose country saw the first transmission of Ebola in Europe.

"It's interesting a case like Spain, that has seen the stark realities of dealing with Ebola, yet we are contributing 50 times more than Spain. It's for countries to reflect on what they can be spending," said a source.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141023eaan006y5


NEWS
David Cameron: Britain at risk from Eurozone slowdown
By Matthew Holehouse and Bruno Waterfield in Brussels
607 words
23 October 2014
01:35 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Prime Minister says UK is 'not immune to economic problems elsewhere in Europe' as he flags 'worries and concerns' about growth on the Continent

The recovery of Britain's economy is at risk from the slowdown in the eurozone, David Cameron warned today, on the eve of new figures that are expected to show growth is cooling.

The Prime Minister said there "worries and concerns" about the condition of European economies. Arriving at a meeting of the European Council in Brussels, he said he would be looking to European leaders for answers on how they would boost growth.

"Britain's economy is growing well – we are creating jobs, and seeing new businesses start up. But we are not immune to economic problems elsewhere in Europe.

"There are some worries and concerns about the state of other European economies and I'll be wanting to hear about plans that others have to make it easier to employ people, to deregulate, to reform, to make sure the European economies can grow so the British economy can continue."

Britain's economic recovery is expected to post a slowdown when official figures are published tomorrow.

Analysts expect gross domestic product (GDP) to have grown by 0.7% in the third quarter of the year, down from 0.9% in the previous three-month period.

The increase would still represent strong growth and a seventh successive quarter of expansion for the UK. But the slowdown comes amid weeks of turbulence on the stock markets.

Minutes of the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee released yesterday warned that the deteriorating eurozone situation "had increased the risks to the durability of the UK expansion".

The loss of momentum was "especially notable in Germany”, the minutes read, as its economy “was more vulnerable than many other countries to shifts in global demand”.

Shortly before Mr Cameron arrived in Brussels yesterday, protesters campaigning against cuts to pensions threw firecrackers at a barbed-wire roadblock outside the European Commission. A police watercannon was on standby nearby.

Mr Cameron is expected to tell Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, that Germany must do more to stimulate growth amid fears that Europe’s largest economy is headed for a triple-dip recession.

A fortnight ago, George Osborne, the Chancellor warned that Britain’s recovery was “not immune” to economic stagnation in Europe as a looming downtown in the eurozone threatened British exports and manufacturing jobs.

Eurozone fears have been triggered after Germany’s exports fell earlier this month at the fastest rate since the height of the global financial crisis.

Germany’s five economic institutes – or "Wise Men" – have slashed their growth forecast for Germany next year after German exports slumped by 5.8 per cent in August as the crisis in Ukraine and Russia took its toll.

Christine Lagarde, the head of the International Monetary Fund, has warned that the eurozone is at “serious risk” of falling back into recession unless Berlin moves to stimulate economic growth, pressure that is being resisted by Chancellor Merkel.

Mr Cameron said he would use the meeting to demand other European countries "do more" to fight the "crisis" of Ebola.

Britain has been "leading the way" after pledging more than £125 million and sending hundreds of troops and medics to West Africa. Government sources expressed their dismay yesterday that Britain has given £30 million more than Germany, four times as much as France and fifty times as much as Spain, the only European country to see person to person transmission of Ebola on its soil.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141023eaan00592


NEWS
British-American Ebola patient released from hospital
By Raf Sanchez Washington
656 words
23 October 2014
11:46 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Ashoka Mukpo has been released from hospital as the US announced it would closely monitor the health of travellers entering the country from West Africa

A British-American cameraman cured of Ebola has been released from a US hospital but said he has "a heavy feeling" knowing thousands of other sufferers are languishing without care in Africa.

Ashoka Mukpo, 33, said it was painful to know he received state-of-the-art treatment in Nebraska while people in Liberia were dying without even basic medical facilities.

"It's a heavy feeling," he told NBC News. "I don't know if 'guilt' is the right word. But just feels like something isn't right about that."

Mr Mupko spoke for the first as the US announced it would closely monitor the health of all travellers arriving in the country from Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea.

The White House has been under political pressure to bar people from the Ebola zone entering the US but the government has insisted a blanket travel ban would not work.

Instead, anyone arriving in the US from the worst-hit countries will have to report their temperature to public health officials every day for three weeks.

People showing signs of a fever, often an indication of Ebola, will be quarantined for 21 days. Anyone considered "high risk" because of their contacts with Ebola patients could also be quarantined even if they show no symptoms themselves.

Mr Mupko contracted the virus in Liberia, where he had been filming Ebola treatment centres and burials for Western news organisations. He said he still did not know exactly how he was infected.

"That's the million dollar question. And unfortunately there's not a satisfactory answer for it," he said.

Mr Mupko was declared free from the virus on Tuesday and said: "I can feel my strength coming back every day."

var parentElm = document.getElementsByTagName('script'), domOutput = document.createElement('div'); parentElm = parentElm[ parentElm.length-2 ]; if(Telegraphics.Modernizr.mobileonmobilesite){ domOutput.innerHTML = '

'} else { domOutput.innerHTML = '

'; } parentElm.parentNode.insertBefore(domOutput, parentElm);

The cameraman was able to hug and shake hands with a team of 60 medical workers who had cared for him but who he had never seen without their protective suits on.

Meanwhile Amber Vinson, one of two US nurses who caught Ebola while treating a Liberian man in a Texas hospital, is also free of the virus, according to her family.

"Amber and our family are ecstatic to receive this latest report on her condition," said her mother, Debra Berry, who is in quarantine in Texas after spending time with her daughter.

The Centres for Disease Control (CDC), the public health agency overseeing Ms Vinson's treatment in Georgia, would not confirm that she had been cured.

Successful treatment of Ms Vinson and Nina Pham, the other infected nurse, would be a major step towards reassuring an American public shaken by the virus's appearance in their country.

Ms Pham is being treated at a facility outside of Washington DC and both women are expected to survive their encounter with a virus that has killed more than 4,500 people in Africa.

The US government hopes that by isolating the two nurses it has "broken the chain" of infection and headed off a larger outbreak inside America.

US scientists are also exploring repurposing robots used for bomb disposal and other emergencies to help fight against Ebola, according to the New York Times.

Many people in west Africa had caught the virus while burying the bodies of loved ones and scientists are looking to see if robots could be used at burials or for cleaning up body fluids that often transmit Ebola.

The project is being backed by the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy although scientists acknowledge it could be difficult to deploy robots in countries with almost no public health systems.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141023eaan004h7


News
Don't expect an Ebola, 'nanny', NHS staff told
148 words
23 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; Scotland
2
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
News Bulletin

NHS staff should not expect to be "nannied" about how to protect themselves from Ebola and must take "personal responsibility", the Chief Medical Officer has warned.

Dame Sally Davies spoke out after MPs said NHS staff had complained that they had not been told where to find protective clothing in hospitals.

She told the health select committee: "I think we also need to get over to frontline staff that they have a personal responsibility to make sure that they find out where their PPE [protective suit] is and they have learnt to do this. We are not a paternalistic society and I am not a nanny. They must choose to listen to the training."

She said national planning was "excellent" and that there was likely to be a "handful" of cases in Britain in coming months.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141023eaan000aa


News
Ukip attacks Red Cross for refusing calypso song cash
Georgia Graham
309 words
23 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
18
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
THE UK Independence Party has accused the Red Cross of "playing politics with people's lives" after the charity refused to accept a donation raised through the sales of its comic "Ukip Calypso" song.

Mike Read, a former BBC Radio 1 presenter, offered to give all the funds raised from the song to the charity to help victims of Ebola after it was described as racist by critics.

The Red Cross has said that it will not accept the donation because the song, which Read wrote and performed in a cod–Jamaican accent, was party political and contains an attack on refugees and asylum seekers.

The song praises Ukip and its leader Nigel Farage, and says the Labour Party "committed a cardinal sin, open the borders let them all come in, illegal immigrants in every town".

Yesterday, the song had reached No 21 in the midweek singles chart.

Mr Read apologised for "unintentionally causing offence" with the tune and asked his record company to withdraw it.

Steven Crowther, Ukip's chairman, said that the party was "staggered" by the charity's decision.

He said: "We regret that the British Red Cross think it's their place to put politics over saving people's lives. We will seek to donate all the money to another charity working to help tackle the tragic Ebola crisis in West Africa."

A spokesman for the charity said: "We will not be able to accept any money from the proceeds of this single.

"As a neutral organisation, we cannot benefit from something which overtly supports one political party. In addition, the Red Cross has a proud history of helping refugees and asylum seekers who are negatively referred to in the lyrics."

Ukip had previously accused critics of creating "synthetic" outrage over the song.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141023eaan00061


Business
Drug giants united over Ebola vaccine
Denise Roland
368 words
23 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
5
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
JOHNSON & Johnson is to start testing its Ebola vaccine candidate in January after the World Health Organisation (WHO) and world leaders asked the US drug giant and other companies to accelerate their research programmes.

GlaxoSmithKline, which is at a more advanced stage of vaccine development, separately said it would have the first doses of its serum available by the end of the year.

J&J said healthy volunteers in America, Africa and Europe would start receiving the vaccine, which has already shown "promise" in animal testing, early in the new year.

It has pledged $200m (£124m) to accelerate the research programme and plans to manufacture 1m doses over the course of next year. It said 250,000 of these will be released for "broad application" in clinical trials by May.

However, Paul Stoffels, J&J's chief medical officer, stressed that the WHO's priority is still to bring the epidemic under control by medical measures such as isolating and treating infected people.

In a sign of the urgency with which the epidemic is being treated by the pharmaceuticals industry, Dr Stoffels said he had spoken with Sir Andrew Witty, chief executive of GlaxoSmithKline, "several times" on the potential for collaboration.

GSK is one of two other drug makers developing a vaccine and is already running trials on healthy volunteers in the US, UK and Mali. Sir Andrew said the company was "leaving no stone unturned" in the project. Canadian biotech NewLink is also working on an experimental vaccine.

Dr Stoffels said the British company and other vaccine makers were ready to help produce more of the J&J vaccine should it prove the most effective. Likewise, he said J&J could help manufacture a rival's vaccine should it prove more powerful.

"The pharmaceuticals industry is pulling together as companies provide capability and capacity if need be," he said.

J&J has invested $43m in Danish biotech company Bavarian Nordic to help the much smaller firm scale up its vaccine production.

More than 4,500 people have died so far in the world's largest yet outbreak of Ebola in West Africa.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141023eaan00029


Business
Timis secures lifeline for London Mining operation
Ashley Armstrong
342 words
23 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
5
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
FRANKTimis, the chairman of African Minerals, has struck a deal to buy London Mining's operations in Sierra Leone out of administration.

Last week London Mining collapsed after failing to find a buyer for the business as it struggled with debts following a slump in iron ore prices and the Ebola crisis.

Sierra Leone's finance minister Kaifala Marah flew to London last weekend to join emergency talks with administrator PwC about the potential sale of the Marampa mine, which employs 1,400 people in the West African country and has iron ore reserves expected to support production for the next 40 years.

Mr Timis's African Minerals owns a neighbouring iron ore mine, the Tonkolili project, in Sierra Leone and is expected to enter into a joint venture with Marampa.

"It is expected that the Marampa Mine will continue to be a major source of employment and government revenue in Sierra Leone, and avoids the closure of such an important asset for the local and national community", Mr Timis said.

"I look forward to working with the workforce of Marampa, who have done such a phenomenal job against very difficult circumstances."

The Daily Telegraph reported yesterday that Timis Corporation had secured financial backing in Australia to acquire the Marampa mine. Cape Lambert Resources, an Australian listed mineral developer, confirmed that it had negotiated a $20m (£12m) funding agreement with Timis including an $8m (£4.9m) one–year bridge loan and a $12m (£7.5m) royalty purchase. The Australian business said that it expects the royalty to provide an income stream of up to $56m (£34m) over the next four years. However, industry sources warned that Timis may need extra financing to ramp up iron ore production at the Marampa mine in the face of a slump in prices.

Mr Timis's London–listed African Minerals venture hired banks in September to consider its own debt restructuring, after it had to tap funds earmarked for expansion to cover its working capital needs.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141023eaan00018


NHS staff must take 'personal responsibility' for protecting themselves from Ebola
By Steven Swinford and Matthew Holehouse
471 words
23 October 2014
02:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Dame Sally Davies says that Britain is not a 'paternalistic society' and doctors and nurses must listen to the training they are given to protect themselves from Ebola.

NHS staff should not expect to be "nannied" about how to protect themselves from Ebola and must take "personal responsibility", the Chief Medical Officer has warned.

Dame Sally Davies said that Britain is not a "paternalistic" society and that NHS staff must "choose to listen to the training" that they are given.

Her comments came after MPs said they had been informed by NHS staff that they have not been told where protective clothing is located in their hospitals.

Dame Sally told the health select committee: "I think we also need to get over to front line staff that they have a personal responsibility to make sure that they find out where their PPE [protective suit] is and they have learned to do this. We are not a paternalistic society and I am not a nanny. They must choose to listen to the training."

She said that planning at a national level has been "excellent" but said she is “concerned” about whether “our staff know enough on how to” treat patients effectively using personal protection equipment. She said that there are likely to be a "handful" of cases in Britain in coming months.

One MP criticised Dame Sally's comments as "slightly disturbing" and suggested that training for NHS staff in how to deal with Ebola should be mandatory.

She said that she had "no doubt" that that screening at airports was the best way to catch those showing signs of the disease, but admitted "we won't be able to pick them all up". She disclosed that one person has already refused to be screened, although they were later tested by the Health Protection Agency.

It comes as David Cameron expected to use a summit in Brussels on Thursday to confront European leaders who are refusing to make meaningful donations to the campaign to halt the spread of Ebola.

At a meeting of the European Council in Brussels, the Prime Minister is expected to challenge Spain, which has committed just one-fiftieth of Britain’s £125 billion donation, despite being the only country in Europe to see person-to-person infection.

Downing Street wants the EU nations to collectively pledge £787 million (euro 1 billion) towards the fight against Ebola. So far, offers of just £590 million (euro 750 million) have been made.

The EU has found fewer than half the 2,000 medics and troops that Downing Street said should be sent to West Africa to halt the outbreak. Britain has promised to send 750 people to run treatment centres and a training academy.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141023eaan000p4


NEWS
How do you get the Ebola message across?
By Harriet Alexander
817 words
22 October 2014
08:37 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Ebola is spreading because many people do not understand the healthcare advice given in English or French, a charity is warning, as activists are resorting to unorthodox means to issue advice and drum up funding

The basic rules for avoiding the spread of Ebola are not fully understood because too often they are only explained in Western languages, a charity has warned.

Ebola infections can be dramatically slowed by simple behaviour changes - not shaking hands as a greeting, washing regularly with soap and water, and avoiding contact with the bodies of those who have died from the virus.

But the guidance is often not followed because it is frequently written - hopeless for countries with high levels of illiteracy - or given in English or French, the colonial languages of Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea.

Now healthworkers and charities are trying new methods of getting their message across - through music, videos and the fundraising hashtag #ShakeEbolaOff.

A group of Sierra Leoneans living in America and working in LA have made a video in Krio - a common language in Sierra Leone - destroying the many myths around the disease [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B-WIXCzOC9M] . They have also begun a campaign - like the Ice Bucket Challenge - with the hashtag #ShakeEbolaOff.

Twitter: Kevin Bacon - #ShakeEbolaOff [https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23ShakeEbolaOff] challenge. @iamedigathegi [http://www.twitter.com/iamedigathegi] challenge. @samunderwood [http://www.twitter.com/samunderwood] challenge. http://t.co/Or2q9CMRAy [http://t.co/Or2q9CMRAy] challenge. http://t.co/Ivx5sfMWKt [http://t.co/Ivx5sfMWKt] challenge.

Nominees have to film themselves dancing, or else give money to the charity Emergency USA, which is working in Sierra Leone. Among those to dance in support of the cause were actor Kevin Bacon [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6jjMx4n4ooY] and the Denver Broncos cheerleaders.

An American charity, Translators Without Borders [http://translatorswithoutborders.org/], is working to produce materials in local dialects.

"People will die because they do not have access to information in a language they can understand," said Gary Muddyman, CEO of UK translation agency Conversis, and advisor to the charity - which offers free translation services for NGOs and healthcare providers.

"Whether it is the cultural practice of kissing the dead soon after death, or eating bats, or simply a lack of understanding about how the disease is transmitted or treated, this lack of information leading to lack of knowledge is costing lives and facilitating the spread of the disease."

English is the official language of Sierra Leone, where 930 of the 4024 deaths have occurred. And yet English is really only spoken in the capital, Freetown.

"The epidemic is centered in districts far from Freetown: most deaths are reported from Kailahun and Kenema, where the majority speak Krio," he told The Telegraph. "The communication issue has also, sadly, a disproportionate effect on women. Only 13 per cent of women in Sierra Leone speak English even as a second language."

Mr Muddyman's organisation works with professional translators who give their time for free to translate texts on behalf of charities such as MSF, Oxfam and Save The Children. So far they have translated Ebola advice into Hausa, Yoruba and Igbo, for Nigeria, and Swahili, for the DRC and much of Eastern Africa.

They are appealing for any professional translators with knowledge of West African dialects to get in touch - particularly for speakers of Krio, Mende and Temne for Sierra Leone.

Other activists are taking a more unorthodox approach to getting the message across.

"The biggest challenge to containing Ebola is public misinformation and fighting urban and rural myths about the disease," said Carlos Chirinos, director of SOAS radio at the University of London, whose work specialises in links between radio, music and social development in Africa and Latin America. "And music has a vital role to play here."

He told the website Sci Dev Net [http://www.scidev.net/global/health/scidev-net-at-large/unsung-heroes-ebola-awareness-rap.html] : "It has a good relationship with youth. In countries where a large proportion of the population is young, music is a powerful tool to relay information.

"Musicians are respected members of the community."

He added that they are often linked in public consciousness to the rich oral traditions of the West African "griot" - oral historians and storytellers - "who for centuries have been charged by their communities to deliver messages, oral history and recommendations for what people need to do to survive."

One of the most popular radio songs in Liberia is currently "Ebola in Town" - a rap song which warns listeners: "Don't touch your friend - it's dangerous."

Mr Chirinios has found ten songs in West Africa which deal with Ebola, and how to avoid it.

A Liberian rapper, Black Diamond, sings lyrics intended to drum up support from around the world - and criticising the West for not doing enough to help.

"Why is Ebola in Africa? Frustration, one nation, African.

"Every day, in the news, Ebola killed my sister in Guinea. Every day, on TV, Ebola killed my brother in Sierra Leone. Every day, in the news, Ebola killed my mother in Liberia.

"Every day, in Asia, America, Europe - Ebola, it's silent."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141017eaah002xl


NEWS
From patron saint to pariah: how Barack Obama became toxic for Democrats
By Peter Foster Washington
1059 words
22 October 2014
05:10 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
With midterm elections only two weeks away, Democrat candidates are doing something they never would have dreamed of in 2008: distancing themselves from President Barack Obama

Six years after Barack Obama[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/barackobama/] helped Democrats[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/democrats/] to a slew of surprising electoral victories in Republican[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/republicans/] states, pollsters and pundits alike agree that the once-charismatic US president has become an electoral liability in November’s mid-term elections.

It has been a stunning reversal of fortunes for Mr Obama, whose celebrity status helped get Democrats elected in several Republican states in 2008 – states which the party is now desperately struggling to defend.

Republicans need to take back six Democrat Senate seats in order to regain control of the 100-member upper chamber, a result that would give them control of both houses of Congress and leave Mr Obama, who is already verging on lame duck status, even further isolated.

With less than two weeks to go until the November 4 polling day, we track the travails of the man who once walked on political water.

You know you’re in trouble when your friends stop listening…

Mr Obama belatedly hit the campaign trail this week, but the depths of his unpopularity soon became clear as supporters walked out early in one rally in the state of Maryland.

As Mr Obama urged a mostly African-American audience to get out and vote, the Reuters news agency reported that “a steady stream of people walked out of the auditorium” as the president was speaking. He was then heckled over the lack of progress on immigration reform.

“You've got to vote,” Mr Obama repeatedly beseeched the crowd at the rally outside Washington, “There are no excuses. The future is up to us.”

Twitter: Jeff Mason - Steady stream of people leaving Maryland rally continues as Obama speaks. It's noticeable and noisy. They would have waited hours to get in.

And even your own candidates won’t admit to knowing you…

Out in middle America, where wages are still flat and Mr Obama is accused of failing to deliver as much ‘hope and change’ as he famously promised, Democrat candidates have been actively disassociating themselves from their party’s leader.

“I’m not Barack Obama,” said Alison Lundergan Grimes, the Democrat candidate in Kentucky in a recent television advert which went on to spell out her disagreements with Mr Obama on guns, coal and environmental regulations.

Indeed, so toxic has Mr Obama’s name apparently become that when Ms Lundergan Grimes was asked if she had ever actually voted for Mr Obama, the 35-year-old lawyer declined to answer.

Unfortunately Democrats need Mr Obama at the top of his game…

Even if Mr Obama was riding high in the polls, this would be a tough year for Democrats according to Larry J. Sabato, director of the University of Virginia Center for Politics[http://www.centerforpolitics.org/crystalball/2014-senate/] .

Only one-third of the Senate's 100 members are up for election this year, and the key races just happen to fall in states like Alaska, Kentucky, North Carolina and Louisiana that tend to favour Republicans.

“It’s both the ‘map and the math’ of the president’s low approval that is hurting Democrats,” says Prof Sabato, before adding that an in-form Obama could still have made the difference.

“Republicans are winning at the moment, but if Obama’s numbers were sky-high – which they are not - then I think Democrats would hold the Senate.”

…Only to be struck down by Ebola.

It’s not Mr Obama’s fault necessarily, but the bungled handling of the Ebola crisis by the US government agency, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), has been the last straw.

How did two US nurses get Ebola after all the reassurances that the disease – properly handled – wasn’t that contagious? And how were infected nurses and hospital technicians allowed to board flights and take holiday cruises?

Mr Obama was forced to cancel a campaign trip to New Jersey to summon an emergency cabinet meeting, but the damage was already done, and the Obama administration’s unfortunate reputation for administrative incompetence was further assured.

Which is not to say that Mr Obama has been entirely useless...

Democrats may run a mile from Mr Obama in the heartlands, but on the liberal coasts his residual celebrity still brings in the fundraising dollars.

By one estimate the president has conducted 45 fundraisers this year – that’s about one a week – visiting hotels, country clubs and the mansions of celebrities and the super-rich to relieve them of their cash.

The president’s sheen may have faded for the ordinary Joe, but in Hollywood he still sets some hearts a-fluttering. “You’re so handsome that I can’t speak properly,” gushed Gwyneth Paltrow as she introduced Mr Obama to guests at her home in Los Angeles.

Cue sounds of retching on the Conservative right.

…but the grassroots have increasingly lost faith.

Pollsters have noted that Mr Obama’s popularity has declined even with those key demographics like women and minorities that twice propelled him to the White House.

A poll last month found that women now disapprove of the president by a 50pc to 44pc margin, a near reversal of Mr Obama’s 55-44pc advantage among women in the 2012 race, according to the Washington Post/ABC News survey.

Having ducked the chance to push immigration reform, the same poll found his support among Hispanics had fallen nearly 20 points since the summer of 2013.

The African-American electorate is more dependable – 87pc still approve of the president – but the difficulty is motivating black voters to turn out in a non-presidential election year.

A recently leaked memo by a former Obama pollster predicted “crushing losses” if Democrats failed to mobilise the black vote – but also found that half of black Americans did not even know when elections were taking place.

A situation not helped by the fact that the man with unrivalled power to turn out the black vote has been all but invisible out on the campaign trail.

Democrats now face a situation that would have seemed unthinkable in 2008: the man who once walked on political water could now be responsible for sinking them in the 2014 midterms.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141021eaal001b9


CULTURE
Ebola: how Will Wintercross photographed the crisis
By Lucy Davies
2029 words
22 October 2014
01:34 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Lucy Davies talks to Will Wintercross about photographing the Ebola outbreak in Liberia

Can you tell us how you came to be photographing the Ebola outbreak in Liberia?

I’ve always kept a very close eye on stories emanating from Africa as it’s where I began my career, so as soon as it broke I was reading up on it. I really felt that while the death toll was rising, it wasn’t getting the coverage it deserved. I was aware of the previous outbreaks but the predictions on how serious this could be were alarming. I then saw a post by a friend of mine who is an aid worker saying that the situation was way more serious than in the past. I mentioned it to a few colleagues and a week or so later my editor called me asking if I’d go. As I was abreast of the story and its dangers, I knew what was involved and said yes immediately.

How long did you spend out there?

I did a week on the first trip then five days on the second, not really enough, but I have to work within the time frames set by budgets and my editor.

How did you prepare for shooting, both in practical and in psychological terms?

Preparing practically is quite easy, I’ve been away enough times so I known exactly what to take; first aid kit, food, satellite phone - that's all fairly standard. If there had been any threat of violence, I would have taken a flak vest and helmet, but with Liberia, the threat was a hidden and more insidious one. Having a plan is essential, the "who what where when" element needs to be as organised as possible and agreed with colleagues back in London and on the ground.

Psychological prep is much harder and it is possible to think too much and back yourself into a corner, as I did on a previous trip to Syria. It's key to go into these situations with your eyes open and with a clear idea as to your objectives, be honest with yourself. I'd say a day or two is ideal for switching my head out of my London life. If you have any longer, it's too much and your mind grinds through too many "what ifs".

How did you prepare for the medical side of things, I assume you were given advice on not catching the virus?

I read up on how the virus is spread at length before flying out and while on the plane. Medecins Sans Frontieres had lots of freely available information but in terms of prevention, there are certain rules that must be abided by such as washing your hands with chlorinated water, not touching anybody, not touching your face at all.

What was the first thing you did when you arrived?

My colleague and I met Ahmed, our fixer, at the hotel and ran through various ideas. I wanted to know what could be filmed and photographed and what the dangers were in doing so. Ahmed is also a photojournalist so he was perfectly placed to guide me as he knew exactly what I wanted. It's always best to sit down in a calm fashion and get all the plans and ideas laid out first, rather than trying to make decisions while on the road.

Do you work with the same fixer each time?

Almost invariably yes, although I’ve only been twice to Liberia on this story, I’ve worked with the same guy, Ahmed, and if I go back I will do so again. Trusting your fixer is absolutely imperative as they know the ground, the language, the customs, the idiosyncrasies and most importantly, they are connected.

Can you describe the kinds of things you saw?

Some of what I saw was so gruesome I didn’t photograph or film it as it was unusable, there's no point shooting something that I know won’t be in my edit, I have to be quite ruthless about it. At a government hospital there were people lying on the floor in the rain and mud, their clothes soiled and faces smeared with vomit and some of them were foaming at the mouth. As I pulled up in the car I saw one girl having a seizure and being held up by someone who turned out to be her brother. As I approached I noticed he had plastic bags on his hands as he didnt want to get her vomit on him, and he was holding her up so she wouldn’t choke. There was no rush to shoot this so I stood back and allowed Ahmed to get an idea of the situation before I approached. I then shot on a wide angle lens before moving in a little closer.

How do you make the call on whether to photograph someone who is obviously in distress or unwell?

That is always the hardest of decisions I have to make. I approach very cautiously, making eye contact with the people that are there so I can gauge the situation, and only once I feel I'm not being too intrusive would I start shooting. It's a very fine line and the journalistic value has to be constantly weighed up against how much I'm intruding. With Ebola, people are often so ill they don't notice me but I've still got to check my own moral compass as to what is acceptable and decent.

Did you wear protective clothing?

I didn't wear protective clothing as I wasn’t going into the homes of dead people or onto the high-risk wards. I did however wear specialist wellies which I sprayed with chlorine after being in an area where there were known to be infected people. I was also mindful of the negative response that wearing protective clothing might spark - shortly before arriving in Liberia for my second assignment, eight health workers were murdered in Guinea by villagers mistakenly thinking that the health workers themselves spread the disease. This level of ignorance and denial is one of the main things fuelling the virus.

Did you have to take any other precautions?

The main precaution is hand sanitisation. Most shops and hotels have chlorinated water outside them to wash hands and footwear and while that is a good thing, the place they are most needed is in the slums where people are living in squalid conditions - a perfect environment for contraction.

Were the people around you taking precautions?

The people I was working with were taking absolute precautions and it was important we looked out for each other as it was in everybody's interest to ensure that we were all following protocol. It's no good one of us behaving if the other doesnt as he could put the rest of us at risk.

Did you speak with any of the doctors out there? And any of the victims? What kinds of things did they say?

The doctors I spoke to were terribly pessimistic and not surprisingly so. Since I was there a few weeks ago, the situation has deteriorated. All of the victims I saw were so ill they were unconscious but I did speak with one man who had survived (pictured at the top of the story). He said he was terrified when he tested positive but luckily for him he was at the Medecins sans Frontieres (MSF) clinic where they are working flat out to save lives. He talked of his nightly prayers and said that God was key in getting through the fight. This is a common problem, people believing that Ebola has something to do with God and if they pray to Him they will recover. As far as I'm aware, no one has recovered using this method. After he tested negative, and therefore would be immune to the virus, he volunteered to go back into the high risk ward to look after his four year old nephew.

Were there any particularly challenging moments?

Being at the gates of various clinics was always the most challenging as people were either in a desperate state, lying in the mud and so on, or their loved ones were in a desperate state and they were upset, trying to get them help. As every clinic is full, people can only be admitted once someone has died or recovered. One of the MSF workers told me that every day he had to make inhumane choices concerning who to keep and who to turn away. Of course, if you stop and think about it, it's very hard to see someone fighting for their life or the pain on the faces of their loved ones. I don't know how they do it.

How do you tackle these very dangerous situations?

Before approaching a specific situation on the ground, I always think about the potential for Hawthorne effect [where subjects change their behavior, simply because they are being studied], and whether my presence will provoke an otherwise unnatural response. In Liberia, where people are left to die outside hospital gates, in the street, anywhere, I have to assess how dangerous it is to approach someone who is now very infectious. If they are still alive, do they have loved ones close by for example, and how they in turn might respond.

When faced with situations like these, Ahmed would get out of the car first to speak to people; he would have to explain what I was there to do. On one occasion I arrived at a government clinic and a 15 year old girl was slumped in the mud, her face covered in vomit and she was having fits. Aside from the obvious threat of infection I was very careful not to be too intrusive, I had keep my own sense of humanity and to preserve her dignity. I remember one woman howling that her sister was dying. I didn’t photograph her or film right away and gradually approached her but she was so distraught that she didn’t even notice me.

Were you working alongside other photographers and journalists when you made these photographs?

I was with a colleague, but due to the fear that Ebola has sown, there are very few journalists covering it. On our first trip in early August, we were the only journalists in Monrovia.

Were you able to edit your work in the evenings whilst you were out there? Or did you need to come home to London and look at it again once you were out of that environment?

I edited all my pictures in the field, including one video package - both of which I filed from the field too, and that was working at capacity with no down time. Shooting video has added an extra level of work, probably three times what I would have done purely for stills. Once home, I edited two more video packages and a wider set of pictures for an online gallery[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11123999/Ebola-outbreak-Telegraph-photojournalist-Will-Wintercross-reports-from-Liberia.html] .

What was in your camera kit bag?

I take three Canon 5D bodies, which are fairly small, with a 50mm, a 24mm, and 70-200mm lens, this way I'm fully covered to shoot stills as well as video and the primes give me superior quality. I also have a high quality microphone and headphones for recording sound and interviews.

Are you off to the region again soon?

Yes, Oxfam have asked me to work with them this week in Sierra Leone.

How do you decompress from something like that?

I tend to decompress privately, I don't talk about what I've experienced in any great detail - I don't have the inclination. Once I get back to London I switch out of a state of being super-focused on my goals, safety and dealing with what I’ve experienced, to being relaxed and seeing friends. Going home to my parents in the country is always a great way of decompressing too.

willwintercross.com [http://willwintercross.com/]

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141020eaak002s3


Ebola outbreak: UK working 'round the clock' to tackle crisis in Sierra Leone, says Justine Greening
By Telegraph video source ITN
171 words
22 October 2014
12:22 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
International Development Secretary Justine Greening says they have seen "an immense amount of progress" on the KerryTown field hospital, as she toured the site of the 92-bed treatment facility in Sierra Leone

International Development Secretary Justine Greening, arrived in Sierra Leone[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/sierraleone/] today to visit UK-funded Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] treatment and training facilities.

Ms Greening said the breakdown of the health care system has taken a serious toll on Sierra Leone's ability to deal with the Ebola crisis.

Britain has contributed a £125 million aid package[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11179135/What-countries-have-pledged-to-fight-Ebola...-and-how-much-theyve-paid-into-the-fund.html] to help to combat the deadly virus, which has killed more than 4,500 people across West Africa, with Sierra Leone, Guinea and Liberia among the worst affected areas.

Ms Greening said there was an immense amount of progress on the 92-bed treatment facility in KerryTown in Sierra Leone.

"We have 300 people working round the clock to bring it on stream soon."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141022eaam003mn


FINANCE
Ebola crisis 'unlikely to be under control within a year', says pharma boss
By Denise Roland
645 words
22 October 2014
08:37 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Paul Stoffels, Johnson & Johnson's chief scientific officer, says size of epidemic means it will take more than a year to contain

The Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] crisis is unlikely to come under control within the next 12 months given the size of the epidemic, according to Johnson & Johnson's chief scientific officer.

Paul Stoffels said the deadly epidemic would go on for "a long time" as he described his company's efforts to develop a vaccine in time to help stem the advancement of the disease.

"At this moment we cannot predict by when the epidemic will be over [but] it’s unlikely that that will happen within next 12 months in view of [its] size," he said.

Johnson & Johnson on Wednesday revealed it will start testing its experimental Ebola vaccine in January after the World Health Organisation (WHO) and world leaders asked it and other companies to accelerate their research programmes.

The US drug giant said healthy volunteers in America, Africa and Europe would start receiving the vaccine, which has already shown "promise" in animal testing, early in the new year.

It has pledged $200m (£124m) to accelerate the research programme, and plans to manufacture one million doses over the course of next year.

J&J said 250,000 of these will be released for "broad application" in clinical trials by May. However Dr Stoffels stressed that the WHO's priority is still to bring the epidemic under control by medical measures such as isolating and treating infected people.

In a sign of the urgency with which the epidemic is being treated by the pharmaceuticals industry, Dr Stoffels said he had spoken with Sir Andrew Witty, boss of GlaxoSmithKline, "several times" on the potential for collaboration.

GSK is one of two other drug makers developing a vaccine, and is already running human trials[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/health/healthnews/11101638/Briton-is-first-to-try-Ebola-vaccine.html] on healthy volunteers in the US, UK and Mali. Canadian biotech NewLink is also working on an experimental vaccine.

Dr Stoffels said the British company and other vaccine makers were ready to help produce more of the J&J vaccine should it prove the most effective. Likewise, he said J&J could help manufacture a rival candidate should it prove more powerful.

"The pharmaceuticals industry is pulling together as companies provide capability and capacity if need be," he said.

"Many companies have already reached out now to confirm they will give whatever help [is needed]," he said. The WHO has asked drug makers to make "as much [vaccine] as you can".

The vaccine hopeful combines a candidate from Janssen, a J&J unit dedicated to finding treatments for unmet medical needs, with one from Danish biotech company Bavarian Nordic. It targets the "Zaire species" of the virus, which is one of the strains circulating in West Africa.

J&J has also invested $43m in Bavarian Nordic to help the much smaller company scale up its vaccine production.

The vaccines, when given one after the other, have already been shown to provide "complete protection against Ebola" in animal testing.

Alex Gorsky, chairman and chief executive of J&J, said the company was "urgently working to provide our vaccine expertise, production capabilities, our people and resources to address the Ebola crisis".

Dr Stoffels, J&J's chief scientific officer, said the company's goal to produce more than a million vaccines in the next few months was "within reach".

"We are committed to bringing our science, technology, innovation and resources to help prevent and treat this deadly disease,” he said.

More than 4,500 people have died so far in the world's largest ever outbreak of Ebola in West Africa.

The WHO has warned that the infection rate could reach 10,000 a week by early December.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141022eaam002jw


NEWS
Let non-celibate gay men donate blood, Tory MP to demand
By Matthew Holehouse Political Correspondent
612 words
22 October 2014
06:52 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Michael Fabricant, MP for Lichfield, say rules introduced in wake of Aids epidemic no longer make sense

A blanket ban on sexually active gay men giving blood should be lifted, a Conservative MP will say today.

Michael Fabricant, a former Government whip and the MP for Lichfield, will tell the Commons that a ban introduced in the 1980s in response to the HIV epidemic is illogical and outdated and should be reviewed by an expert panel.

Under rules introduced in the 1980s, gay men were banned entirely from donating blood. They were revised in 2011 to prevent men who had not been celibate for 12 months from donating.

Mr Fabricant is expected to tell the Commons that those rules “no longer make sense”.

He will argue that gay people pose no greater risk to patients than other people, and suggest that a new pre-donation blood test is introduced for both gay and straight donors.

“How can it be logical that a straight promiscuous man who might have a two different partners each night of the year can donate blood while a gay man in a monogamous loving relationship cannot - unless he has certified that he has been totally celibate for the past year?,” he is expected to say.

“How can a nation that has just passed the equal marriage Act block those same people from donating blood?”

Mr Fabricant is expected to tell the commons that one of his friends “has to tell a lie” in order to donate rare O rhesus negative blood, stocks of which are “extremely low”.

He will speak at the introduction of a Ten Minute Rule Bill, which offers MPs the opportunity to introduce new legislation.

He is expected to say: “In the early 1980s, when doctors first recognised the connection between blood contamination and the newly discovered so-called ‘gay plague’ – AIDS - an instant ban was placed on blood donors who were in high risk categories such as those who shared needles, those who visited prostitutes and of course the gay community.

“There are others too such as people who have visited Sub-Saharan Africa who are considered to be of high risk. Most of these categories remain in place to this day.

“Many in this House today will remember those days when AIDS was a killer without treatment. It had even a higher fatality rate than Ebola has today. It was a killer without mercy. I know what it was like. A young friend of mine in his early 30s, once fit and active, died in 1992 from this awful disease. Thankfully, times have moved on.

“Today, HIV/AIDS is labelled as a chronic illness and is no longer the killer it once was. Huge advances in medicine and treatments mean that a diagnosis isn’t a death sentence, but something that can be managed. More relevant for this Bill, awareness and screening is highly efficient and quick. Detection of HIV/AIDS can be made within weeks and the accuracy is near perfect. “

“We have a shortage of blood donors. Rules that ban those who are healthy, and who clearly pose no more risk than the average straight person no longer make sense and it’s time that this issue be addressed by the Government.”

Mr Fabricant’s Bill has support from cross-party MPs, including Tim Farron, the president of the Liberal Democrats, and Keith Vaz, the Labour chairman of the Home Affairs select committee.

He is expected to hail Anne Milton, the former health minister who relaxed the law in 2011, as a “gay icon”.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141022eaam00232


NEWS
What countries have pledged to fight Ebola... and how much they've paid into the fund
By Raf Sanchez Washington and Laurence Dodds
789 words
22 October 2014
06:39 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
As a row erupts between the World Health Organisation and China, The Telegraph examines UN figures to reveal how much money the global community has given to the fight against Ebola

A UN agency has lashed at out China's billionaires for not contributing enough to fight Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] as the global round of finger-pointing between the world's wealthiest nations continues.

The World Food Programme's frustrations with China's response to the outbreak in West Africa spilled into the open as a UN official criticised Beijing's newly-wealthy for their response.

"Where are the Chinese billionaires and their potential impact? Because this is the time that they could really have such a huge impact," said Brett Rierson, WFP representative in China.

China is a major investor in Africa, seeing potential to expand its influence in the continent through major business projects, but both the government and private sector have been relatively slow in using their financial muscle to fight Ebola.

The Chinese government has so far contributed around $8.3 million (£5.2 million) to the UN's main Ebola relief fund, compared to $18.8 million (£11.7 million) from Britain and more than $200 million (£124.5 million) from the US.

Beijing has pledged to deliver another $34 million but has not yet delivered.

So far the US has provided a third of all funding to the UN's Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OHCA) while China has contributed less than two per cent.

President Barack Obama has repeatedly voiced his frustration that it is falling to the US to fund the anti-Ebola effort, a crisis the White House believes threatens all countries.

"This is not simply charity," Mr Obama said, warning that the best way to prevent the spread of the virus was to contain the "raging epidemic" in West Africa.

Mr Obama has worked the phones to other world leaders for more than a week, trying to secure commitments of more funding and resources for Sierra Leone, Guinea and Liberia.

"I think more and more of them are stepping up," he said. "Although it’s, I think, taken a little longer than it should, and that’s something that all of us should recognise".

China has sent nearly 200 medical workers to West Africa and a finance ministry official said the country was "ready to more, as needed".

While the White House believes China, the world's second-largest economy, should do more it is also frustrated with the limited response from Europe.

France has contributed just $7.4 million to the main UN fund and made no commitment to future funding. Italy has pledged a total of around $8 million but so far delivered just $2 million. Spain has put in a mere $540,000 and made no additional commitments.

While the White House insists the chances of a serious Ebola outbreak in the US are "extraordinarily low", the virus has deeply alarmed the American public.

US authorities fumbled the initial response to a Liberian man who arrived in Texas carrying the virus and a Dallas hospital initially sent him with a prescription for antibiotics.

Two nurses who cared for the Ebola patient in Texas were infected with the disease and one was allowed to board a plane and make several stops at airports inside the US.

The two American cases of Ebola were diagnosed weeks before November's elections and sparked widespread calls for a travel ban to prevent people from West Africa coming to the US.

Members of Mr Obama's own Democratic Party have urged the White House to implement a travel ban and polls show that around two-thirds of the American people support a ban.

There are no direct flights between the effected West African countries and the United States and Mr Obama has said repeatedly that a travel ban would be unlikely to work.

Public health officials said that a ban would encourage "broken travel" where people try to hide the fact they had been in an Ebola zone in order to get around the travel ban.

Currently, travellers from West Africa are allowed into the US but are being screened at major American airports in New York, Washington, Chicago and Atlanta, where their temperatures are being measured and they are asked to provide details of their travel plans.

The White House has so far held firm against implementing a travel ban but last week buckled to pressure from Republicans to appoint an "Ebola czar" to oversee the US response, after initially insisting no such appointment was necessary.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141022eaam0020d


FINANCE
Frank Timis to buy collapsed London Mining's Sierra Leone assets
By Ashley Armstrong M&A Reporter
519 words
22 October 2014
06:03 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
African Minerals chairman agrees deal to buy Sierra Leone mine out of London Mining's administration

Frank Timis, the chairman of African Minerals, has struck a deal to buy London Mining's operations in Sierra Leone out of administration.

Last week London Mining collapsed after failing to find a buyer for the business as it struggled with debts following a slump in iron ore prices.

Sierra Leone's finance minister Kaifala Marah flew to London last weekend to join emergency talks about the potential sale of the Marampa mine, which employs 1,400 people in the West African country and has iron ore reserves expected to support production for the next 40 years.

Mr Timis's African Minerals owns a neighbouring iron ore mine, the Tonkolili project, in Sierra Leone and is expected to enter into a joint venture with Marampa.

The Telegraph reported on Tuesday that Timis Corporation had secured financial backing in Australia[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/newsbysector/industry/mining/11177815/London-Mining-warns-investors-will-be-wiped-out.html] to acquire the Marampa mine.

Cape Lambert Resources, an Australian listed mineral developer, this morning said that it had negotiated a $20m (£12m) funding agreement with Timis including a $8m (£4.9m) one year bridge loan and a $12m (£7.5m) royalty purchase.

Cape Lambert said that it expects the royalty to provide an income stream of up to $56m (£34m) over the next four years.

“This funding agreement represents a very good deal for the Company and for its shareholders," said Tony Sage, Cape Lambert’s executive chairman, in an Australian stock exchange announcement.

“The Timis Mining owned Marampa Mine is expected to produce between 5 to 7 million tonnes of iron concentrate per annum which means a potential income stream to Cape Lambert of between US$10m to $14m per annum or up to $56m in total over the term of the royalty.”

London Mining had been working with Goldman Sachs and Standard Chartered to try to find a strategic buyer to plug a funding gap, which meant that it was running out of money to service its only operating iron ore mine.

The collapse came just a week after London Mining’s chief executive, Graeme Hossie, warned investors[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/markets/11147860/London-Mining-warns-investors-will-be-wiped-out.html] that there was little to no value left in the equity of the shares. London Mining’s shares fell by 90pc in just two weeks.

Indian steel conglomerate Jindal had also been involved in discussions about buying the mine.

London Mining was ravaged by the plummeting price of iron ore, which is now at its lowest level since 2009. The group was also hit by a spat with commodities giant Glencore over the pricing of an iron ore supply contract, which is said to have put a squeeze on its short-term cash position.

The Ebola outbreak, which has sparked a crisis in Sierra Leone, has also piled pressure on the group, which has already chartered flights to move its “non-essential” staff out of the country

In June Mr Timis visited Sierra Leone and declared it "business as ususal" despite the Ebola threat.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141022eaam001up


CULTURE
Did Barack Obama invent Ebola? American radio thinks so
By Gillian Reynolds
817 words
22 October 2014
03:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
US radio's treatment of President Obama verges on parody, says Gillian Reynolds

American radio is a culture shock. It’s been 15 years since I last listened to it day by day. I would need the pen of Jonathan Swift to do it justice now. On ordinary AM stations politicians urge the impeachment of President Obama[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/barackobama/] for violating the constitution, so angry they barely articulate their reasons. Some make it sound as if he has invented Ebola.

Ebola leads every news bulletin. Talk show hosts demand all flights from Africa be blocked. Government spokesmen offering reminders of the low risk to the general public, the safety precautions already in place, the single death in the USA so far, are roundly mocked. Fear is the ultimate satisfaction. Not on the commercials, of course. Here is a world where dreams, whether of a new bed or an insurance policy, come true. But only in America. The rest of the world, with the exception of Africa of Ebola infamy, does not seem to exist.

When I got back from Atlanta, New York and western Massachusetts I turned on the radio the minute I was through the door. Oh no! Brookfield, the fictional home of generations of imagined Archers, may be up for sale. David and Ruth Archer are thinking of selling, moving, farming in the north east. Good grief, don’t they know about the weather there? Calm down, Gillian. This is probably the early stages of the customary Christmas plot rocker. Remember Brian’s romance with Siobhan? Adam’s civil wedding to Ian? They were both snaps in the annual Archers cracker. Hang on, though. What’s really happening after that Lower Loxley Hall scandal, the two night stand of Elizabeth and Roy? Is that the gunpowder trail set to explode on Christmas Eve?

Enough speculation. Back to radio reality. Ah yes, here’s Jarvis Cocker on Radio 4 on Mondays with Wireless Nights. This week he pretended to go to the moon. He said he’d always wanted to ever since he was 5 and saw the first man step out onto the lunar surface. So here he was, inside an aural collage created by him (and clever producer Laurence Grissell) where people spoke of floating in space, or being cut off by the tide, or being on life support in hospital and Jarvis perkily interrogated himself (“All right, clever clogs”) and the similarities of their states. Outer space, inner space, the “fathomless impossibility” of space flight. “Oof,” said Jarvis, sounding just like John Shuttleworth, his imaginary fellow Sheffield native, “we’ve landed.”

Radio 3’s In Tune last Friday joined the current national rush to explore Germany. Live at the British Museum Sean Rafferty guided a packed audience, a brilliant viol consort, two young tenors and their gifted accompanist, through a part of German history omitted from the astonishingly good daily Radio 4 series, Germany: Memories of a Nation. (You’ve got it. The music. Bach, Beethoven, Brahms, Strauss and, stretching the boundary to Austria, Mozart.) On the stage with Rafferty was British Museum Director Neil MacGregor, presenter of the radio programmes, even livelier in Friday’s ad-libs, funny, perceptive, generous. It was a very good show, on stage and on air.

The premise of MacGregor’s Radio 4 series is to make us look at the world from a different angle, to understand history through familiar things, cars to coins. Monday’s episode was about Gutenberg, the invention of printing, why it happened where it did, how the printed book heralded a social revolution. Yesterday’s was about Durer but each one (and you can hear them all via the BBC iPlayer for a whole year) breaks boundaries of preconception. Friends telephone to urge me to mention the one about sausages, the one about the flag, but it’s hard to choose. Every one so far has been a joy. It is wonderful to step into a world where great scholars welcome you to new comprehension of history, geography and the transcendent power of art.

The illusion is that this is personal. MacGregor and his expert guests seem to talk just to me. That’s the magic of sound. I went to MacGregor’s lecture to the Friends of the British Museum back in May when the forthcoming series and exhibition were first mentioned. Not an empty seat, not a single cough. At the September press launch of the series I heard a journalist wonder why it hadn’t been done for TV? Cost is the easy answer. A good reason, however, for Germany: Memories of a Nation being only on BBC radio is that sound can make us concentrate more than we do for TV, reach out to ideas, embrace them. Thank heavens (and producer Paul Kobrak) it still does.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141022eaam000uu


Forex Focus: Uncertainty means pound problems
By Liz Phillips
765 words
21 October 2014
06:26 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Currencies are being buffeted by a series of worldwide crises

The risk of Ebola spreading, the conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East combined with falling oil prices and tumbling stock prices mean we are in for a period of volatility.

The answer for anyone looking to exchange large sums – or even regular smaller amounts – is to keep a close eye on exchange rate movements. If you have a currency broker, you could ask them to monitor the rate for you and target a rate you would be happy with before transferring money abroad.

"Uncertainty is on the rise yet again," said Charles Purdy of Smart Currency Exchange ( smartcurrencyexchange.com[http://smartcurrencyexchange.com/] ). "The world economy is not growing as everyone would hope. This uncertainty has made it more certain that interest rates will not be increased any time soon in either the UK or the US and, as such, their currencies are not quite as strong as they were."

All this year there has been a guessing game of when the Bank of England and the US will increase the base rate.

Josh Ferry Woodard of TorFX ( torfx.com[http://www.torfx.com/] ) said: "There has been a massive change in the rate debate this year. At the start of 2014, policymakers at the Bank of England were looking for declines in the jobless rate, under the impression that if more people found work there would be an increase in wage demands and subsequently an increase in inflationary pressures."

Even though employment has risen, wages are still trailing inflation which is now at a five-year low of 1.2pc.

"Inflation is the key driver for volatility as this is directly linked to rates," said Chris Towner from HiFX ( hifx.co.uk[http://www.hifx.co.uk/] ). "As inflation drops, so does the likelihood that we are going to see a rate hike. It's as though the stars are aligned. Just when the US stops its tapering programme and the stock market slumps, the inflation rate drops adding to anxiety about the outlook for the economy."

This anxiety aids the US dollar, as it's seen as a safe port in a storm.

David Lamb from FEXCO ( fexco.com[http://www.fexco.com/] ) said: "Near-term sentiment towards sterling is negative. The US dollar is benefiting from risk aversion due to fears over the global economic outlook and the impending wind down of their quantitative easing programme."

The shine has gone off the pound – it gained 16pc against the dollar for 18 months, peaking in July at $1.72, but no one expects it to rise to that level again soon.

DailyFX's Christopher Vecchio ( dailyfx.com[http://www.dailyfx.com/] ) said: "Prices should range between recent lows above $1.58 but stay below $1.63."

Jake Trask at UKForex ( ukforex.co.uk[http://www.ukforex.co.uk/] ) also offered some hope, saying: "Against the dollar, gains will be harder to come by, but with recent dodgy data from the States, indicating an economic slowdown, the pound's weakness may soon be turned around. So it may pay to hold off transferring funds for a while longer."

Sterling was helped enormously by expectations that the base rate could rise as soon as November. Now predictions for a rate rise have moved out from February to August next year or later.

"This decoupling of job creation and inflation has caused a massive shift in the rate debate," added Ferry Woodard. "With oil prices tanking and supermarkets engaging in fierce price wars there looks to be little in the way of upward inflationary pressure on the horizon. Sterling has felt far-and-away the biggest impact from the recent slowdown in the consumer price index."

Overall, it's a worrying time, with economists reluctant to forecast exchange rates.

Trask said: "We believe sterling will be set for uncertainty for the rest of the year. A gain against the euro is perhaps on the cards, given the worrying low level of inflation in the eurozone and the possibility that Germany may be headed towards a recession."

There are still Forex specialists who hope the pound will reach €1.30 by the end of the year.

David De Ferranti, from DailyFX, said: "The pound's potential to regain its shine into the end of the year is likely dependent on a more hawkish tone from the Monetary Policy Committee. We would likely need to see more consistent improvements in wage growth and a lift in inflation expectations to catalyse a change in tune from policymakers and a recovery for the pound."

For more on forex, sign up for our twice-weekly email bulletin[http://pages.email.telegraph.co.uk/expat-sign-up/] .

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141021eaal001uy


FINANCE
Ebola damage sees IMF slash Africa growth forecasts
By Peter Spence Economics Correspondent
370 words
21 October 2014
05:39 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The spread of the deadly Ebola virus is set to shave several percentage points off growth in affected countries this year, as the IMF has cut its growth forecasts for the continent as a whole.

The outbreak of the deadly Ebola virus is one of several “increasingly potent downside risks” that threaten growth in sub-Saharan Africa, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has warned.

Subject to the risk of a deterioration in Ebola control, and other threats, the IMF predicted that growth in the sub-Saharan region would “remain strong”, at around 5pc in 2014, and 5.75pc in 2015.

The 2014 forecast has been reduced since an estimate of 5.5pc this April, as the “fast” growth and “positive picture” has been “overshadowed by the dire situation in Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone.

In these three countries the current Ebola outbreak is exacting a "heavy human and economic toll”, the IMF said.

The World Bank has previously announced that in the event of a worst-case scenario, Ebola could cost affected economies up to £20bn[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11149117/World-Bank-rings-alarm-over-20bn-worst-case-Ebola-scenario.html] .

The current Ebola outbreak “could have much larger regional spillovers, especially if its more protracted or spreads to other countries”, the IMF cautioned.

Given epidemiologist estimates that it “may take up to nine months to bring the outbreak under control” the IMF said that the epidemic would shave off 1.5 percentage points of Guinea’s growth in 2014, and 3.25-3.5 in Liberia and Sierra Leone.

Beyond the human cost of the virus in West Africa, the outbreak “is set to have an acute impact” in those three countries, across their key economic sectors of agriculture, mining, and services.

These “have become severely disrupted” while “economic spillovers” have already begun to materialise in neighbouring countries.

Should the situation escalate “it would have severe consequences for activity … undermining confidence, investment decisions, and trade activities throughout the region”.

Risks that Ebola could spread to nearby nations have been reflected in cocoa prices[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11145266/What-chocolate-prices-tell-us-about-the-spread-of-Ebola.html] , as investors have assessed the threat to production of the foodstuff.

Neighbouring Gambia and Senegal have already suffered “substantially curtailed” tourism as a result of the virus.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141021eaal001p6


NEWS
Did this doctor save Nigeria from Ebola?
By Colin Freeman Chief foreign correspondent
895 words
21 October 2014
05:30 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Nigeria could have been Ebola's main disaster zone – thanks to a few smart medics, it has a clean bill of health

Today there's been some rare good news on the Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] front. Three months after suffering its first cases of the virus, Nigeria[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/nigeria/] has been declared Ebola-free again by the World Health Organisation. [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11174554/How-Nigeria-beat-the-Ebola-virus.html]

It may not sound like tremendous news, given that the death toll is still rocketing elsewhere in West Africa. But given how bad it could have been, it's something to be extremely thankful for. I could just as easily be writing now that Ebola had claimed its 10,000 victim in Nigeria, and was on its way to kill hundreds of thousands more.

No, I am not about to embark on a paean in praise of the Nigerian state health system. That would be both dull to read, and an insult to the millions of Nigerian who have to suffer it every day. For the main credit goes to a single doctor working in a private health clinic, Stella Adadevoh, who effectively saved the country from disaster by spotting that its first Ebola patient was lying about his condition, and then stopped him leaving her clinic. Dr Adadevoh is now dead, having acquired Ebola herself in the process. But more on her later. First, let me explain why Nigeria was quite such a "perfect storm" for Ebola in the first place.

The first reason is simple demographics. Nigeria is the giant of West Africa, with nearly 170 million people. That's about eight times as much as the combined populations of Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea, the countries at the main centre of the outbreak. Not only that, much of Nigeria's population is hoarded into vast, cramped, mega-cities like Lagos, many in slum neighbourhoods that are vast potential reservoirs for infection. Much of the north of the country is out of government control because of the Boko Haram insurgency. And in those regions that do submit to government writ, public services typically have a reputation for being lousy even by African standards – if they exist at all.

So when Ebola first hit Nigeria back in July, there was every reason to assume the worst, particularly given the appalling circumstances of its first case, Patrick Sawyer. [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/10998222/Ebola-outbreak-Victim-who-sparked-fears-of-global-epidemic-was-on-way-home-to-US.html]

Mr Sawyer, a civil servant from Liberia, had flown into Lagos airport despite knowing he had been exposed to the virus. He vomited while on the plane and then collapsed in the airport terminal.

But the fact that a highly infectious person had passed through West Africa's busiest transport hub was not the only cause for worry. Nigeria's doctors were also on strike at the time, meaning that its health care system was in even less of a shape to respond to such an emergency than normal.

As it turned out, though, the strike was a Godsend. Instead of being taken to one of Lagos's vast public hospitals, where he might have languished for hours, infecting numerous fellow patients and staff, Mr Sawyer was instead taken to a private hospital.

There he was seen by the sharp-eyed Dr Adadevoh, who realised that his symptoms suggested he was not suffering merely from malaria, as had been previously suspected. She alerted the Nigerian health ministry, and then prevented Sawyer leaving the hospital to attend a business conference in another Nigerian city. When he got angry, she and her colleagues also had to physically restrain him – which may be when she caught Ebola herself.

Either way, though, her quick actions in identifying Mr Sawyer as a serious threat are now credited with helping to nip Nigeria's potential Ebola crisis in the bud. Others did their bit too. A small team of independent doctors and IT experts, joined forces to set up two health education websites and a dedicated Ebola call-centre and advice line, realising that by the time central government got its act together, it could be too late. And the governor of Lagos, Babatunde Fashola, who has made rare progress in improving the city, helped ensure there was a coordinated response to quarantine the dozens of other people that Mr Sawyer had already infected.

"A lot of people were very worried about Ebola coming to Nigeria," says Dr Ike Anya, a London-based Nigerian public health expert and honorary lecturer at Imperial College. "But people did pull together. The volunteer effort went well, the central command facility went well, and Dr Adadevoh also played a key role."

Thus did the country that could have been "Ebola on steroids" avoid a serious outbreak. There is, of course, every chance that new infections could occur – courtesy, perhaps, of yet another Patrick Sawyer who comes in without disclosing his exposure history. But it shows that individuals as well as governments can indeed play an important role in averting doomsday scenarios.

In Nigeria, there is already talk of Dr Adadevoh getting a posthumous national award, or having a hospital named in her honour. But perhaps the recognition should be wider than that. When the Ebola outbreak is finally curbed – assuming it is – there will doubtless be no shortage of UN and WHO bigwigs lined up for international gongs. Maybe Ms Adadevoh should be first in the queue.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141020eaak004ed


News
Obama becomes a liability for the Democrat cause
Peter Foster
641 words
21 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
15
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Supporters walk out on president in mid–speech

PRESIDENT Barack Obama belatedly hit the US election campaign trail yesterday amid dismal personal approval ratings that have been reflected in even his own supporters walking out on him midspeech.

With two weeks until polling day in the Congressional midterm elections, and Democrats looking in danger of losing control of the Senate, the depth of Mr Obama's unpopularity was clear for him to see in one early rally in Maryland.

As he urged a mostly African–American audience to get out and vote, the Reuters news agency reported that "a steady stream of people walked out of the auditorium" as he was speaking. He was then heckled over the lack of progress on immigration reform.

"You've got to vote," Mr Obama beseeched the crowd at the rally outside Washington. "There are no excuses. The future is up to us."

Besieged by negative issues – from a sluggish economic recovery, to foreign policy setbacks and the mismanagement of the Ebola crisis – the president's personal approval ratings have now been in negative territory for 17 months in succession.

It has been a stunning reversal of fortunes for Mr Obama, whose presence on the top of the ballot helped to get Democrats elected in several Republican–leaning states in 2008 – states that the party is desperately struggling to defend six years later.

Republicans need to take back six Senate seats in order to regain control of the 100–member upper chamber, a result that would give them control of both houses of Congress and leave Mr Obama, who is already verging on lame duck status, even further isolated.

"It's both the map and the maths of the president's low approval that is hurting Democrats," said Larry J Sabato, the director of the University of Virginia Centre for Politics.

"It just so happens that a large majority of key Senate races are in Republican states where he's got a much lower job approval rating. It is difficult to get Democrat senators re–elected when their president is so unpopular."

Prof Sabato's prediction model, which he updates daily, estimates that the Republicans will win back the Senate, but he believes that, in his old incarnation, Mr Obama could still have made the difference. "We predict Republicans are winning at the moment, but if Obama's numbers were skyhigh – which they are not – then I think Democrats would hold the Senate."

Pollsters have noted that the President's popularity has declined even with the key demographics that twice propelled him to the White House.

A poll last month found that women now disapprove of the president by a 50 per cent to 44 per cent margin, a near reversal of Mr Obama's 55–44 per cent advantage among women in the 2012 race, according to the Washington Post/ABC News survey.

Mr Obama was in Chicago yesterday, where he cast an early ballot in an effort to encourage Democrats to do the same, but it was a rare appearance in a campaign where he has been deployed almost exclusively to raise funds with Hollywood celebrities and monied coastal elites.

Out in middle America, where wages are still flat and Mr Obama is accused of failing to deliver as much "hope and change" as he famously promised, Democrat candidates have been actively disassociating themselves from their party's leader.

"I'm not Barack Obama," said Alison Lundergan Grimes, the Democrat candidate in Kentucky in a recent television advert which went on to spell out her disagreements with the president.

So toxic has Mr Obama's name apparently become that when Ms Lundergan Grimes was asked if she had ever actually voted for Mr Obama, the 35–year–old lawyer refused to answer.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141021eaal0007p


News
Nigeria declared Ebola–free after 1,000 put in quarantine
Colin Freeman
281 words
21 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
14
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
HEALTH chiefs declared Nigeria to be officially free of the deadly Ebola virus yesterday, giving rare praise to the country's government for containing an outbreak that could have proved disastrous.

In an unexpected glimmer of hope in the battle against Ebola, Nigerian officials successfully tracked down and quarantined nearly 1,000 possible carriers of the virus after an initial case back in June.

The operation confounded fears that the giant West African nation was likely to become a major breeding ground for Ebola, given its huge cities, poor health service, and reputation for chaotic government.

Yesterday, the World Health Organisation (WHO) said that Nigeria had not had a confirmed case of Ebola for 42 days – equivalent to two successive incubation periods of 21 days – effectively giving it a clean bill of health.

The announcent is a relief to WHO officials, who had feared the outbreak would be uncontrollable were it to spread to Nigeria's lawless north–east, where the Boko Haram insurgent group holds sway.

"This is a spectacular success story," said Rui Gama Vaz, a WHO spokesman, to applause at a news conference in the Nigerian capital, Abuja. "It shows that Ebola can be contained."

Unflattering comparisons are now likely to be drawn between Nigeria's success and the mishandling of the recent Ebola outbreak in America, where President Barack Obama berated health officials on Sunday for a series of mishaps.

In Texas, some 120 people are still being monitored for possible infection, although yesterday officials said that 43 of 48 people on an original watch list had now passed a 21–day incubation period.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141021eaal0006b


Features
Read more Telegraph opinion at telegraph.co.uk/comment
75 words
21 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
21
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Dan Hodges

Sooner or later, David Cameron is going to have to deal with Ukip.

Harry Mount

Why we need to rescue Britain's crumbling churches.

Colin Freeman

Did this doctor save Nigeria from Ebola?

Allan Massie

What's on my 'bucket list'? To come to terms with the past.

Follow

@TelegraphBlogs on Twitter Join us on Facebook at facebook.com/telegraph.co.uk

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141021eaal0005v


Business
Ebola 'to cut Africa growth'
88 words
21 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
5
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
News Bulletin

The outbreak of the Ebola virus is one of several "increasingly potent downside risks" that threaten growth in sub–Saharan Africa, the International Monetary Fund has warned. Subject to the risk of a deterioration in Ebola control, the IMF predicted that 2014 growth would be about 5pc, down from an estimate of 5.5pc in April. It said the epidemic would shave 1.5 percentage points off Guinea's growth and 3.25–3.5 in Liberia and Sierra Leone.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141021eaal0002a


LIFESTYLE
Meet Richard Coles, the atheist's favourite vicar
By Sally Saunders
1320 words
20 October 2014
11:51 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Pop star turned broadcaster - and priest - Richard Coles tells Sally Saunders about sex, drugs and rock’n’roll

The Reverend Richard Coles’s diary must look a bit different from that of most vicars in the shires. On the day we meet, it reads something like this: 10am: junior school harvest festival. 2pm: interview and photo shoot. 8pm: book launch party at the Ministry of Sound in London.

But then, Rev Coles is not like most clergy.

His claims to fame are fast becoming too numerous to mention: Eighties pop star (in The Communards); long-time radio broadcaster; the inspiration for the BBC sitcom Rev; part of the gay group portrayed in the latest Brit-hit Pride; popular guest on the likes of QI and Have I Got News for You… the list, it seems, is endless. The best description is his own: “ 'The atheist’s favourite vicar’, although I don’t know what that really says about me,” he says darkly.

I am meeting Rev Coles in his “man shed” in the garden to discuss his autobiography, Fathomless Riches, or How I Went from Pop to Pulpit, which was released this week.

It is a book that is sure to raise a few eyebrows in the church, I suggest. “For a clerical memoir, there’s a lot of sex and drugs and rock and roll,” he admits.

Quite. The book does not pull a single punch. The memoir proper begins with an unlikely encounter with a naked man in a lay-by on Christmas Day, and goes on to detail the ups and downs of life as a gay man in the Eighties and Nineties. It’s not for the faint-hearted, and has already ruffled a few feathers.

Rev Coles does not want to offend (“If anyone is upset by it, I can only apologise”), but it seems he has a greater purpose, and rather than titillating, he wants to inspire. The preface to the book discusses St Paul’s Damascene conversion, with Rev Coles later recounting his own epiphany, and subsequent devotion of his life to God.

This, he says, is the reason for his complete openness, and warts-and-all discussion of his past.

“Religious people see it as a confessional in the tradition of St Augustine, and although I would hasten to say I am not comparing myself with St Augustine, I wonder if I can make this look not completely implausible,” he says.

This is important to him, to show people his journey, the depths as well as the heights he had hit, and make it still look “possible” to have faith.

He is unflinching in his portrayal of his drug use and casual sex, and equally honest in describing the horrors of losing friend after friend to Aids when the disease first swept the homosexual community.

He sees frightening parallels with today. “I think it’s a bit like Ebola: something terrible but far away that doesn’t really affect 'people like us’. But then, certainly with HIV and Aids, it did affect people like us.

“It was very near. Going back to it now I think lots of it has been buried because it was such a catastrophe.”

One of the darkest aspects of the autobiography is when Rev Coles describes how he lied to friends, claiming that he was HIV positive, after a row with then-bandmate Jimmy Somerville. The Communards split up shortly afterwards but it took Rev Coles years before he admitted his deception.

However, the disease did shine one tiny ray of light. After years of not speaking to Somerville (“In a band there’s so much tension, it’s a bit like an ex-husband, too much water under the bridge”) the pair were reunited by the loss of a friend. “We realigned when we lost an ex-flatmate of Jimmy’s and have stayed in touch ever since. He’s coming tonight, actually.” Tonight being the book launch party at nightclub Ministry of Sound. “I just couldn’t resist it,” he says, smiling.

He seems to love the slightly incongruous nature of the event, but then in his career it’s nothing new.

“I find myself with a curious double ministry,” he says. “I have my parish here, where I am the vicar, but because of the wonders of having been famous, and having this platform, I have another kind of ministry as well.

“In the church I am very accountable, to the parish and the deanery; in the media thing I am not really accountable, I am out there on my own as a sort of busy, recognised religious person.

“I feel like I am a missionary of the 1880s going on the Zambezi getting darker and darker and further away from home and I am thinking, how am I going to stay here?

“I spend much of my time in a broadly liberal secular world but I don’t belong to it, I belong somewhere else. There is a tension there.”

But Rev Coles is prepared to put up with tension to get his voice heard. “I think that Christians should have confidence, we have always been part of the mainstream conversation, and if we don’t join in often what you hear gets hectoring and mad, just people on the margins.

“I think of the peace and comfort with which the Church of England has long fitted into the mainstream of people’s lives, and I would like it to be there still.” He has his own ways of fitting into this “mainstream conversation”. Many people know him as the presenter of Radio 4’s Saturday Live, or as a guest on TV panel shows, particularly QI, where he has a foil in Stephen Fry. “Like me he has one foot in a very traditional world, one foot in a very radical world,” says Rev Coles. “It’s a little bit awkward sometimes actually, I feel very much like the poor man’s Stephen Fry.” One difference is the two men’s opposing stances on religion, although Rev Coles says this sometimes slips his mind. “There’s something of the archdeacon about Stephen,” he says, smiling. “Sometimes when we get into a deeper discussion I imagine we are both canons of Barchester cathedral.”

So is a cathedral where his ambitions lie now? Has he got designs on a bishop’s hat? “I don’t have any ambitions,” he says. “I am looking forward to retiring, or at least having more time. When I was young I wanted more stuff, now I am older, I want more time.

“There is a place I love in the west of Scotland, we go there every year. I want to be there walking the dogs on the beach with David [his civil partner, with whom he has a celibate relationship].

“I want to walk around looking at stuff.” It is not surprising he wants to walk, rather than sit: Rev Coles is so busy with a “million jobs” as a vicar and a broadcaster that he seems to be in perpetual motion. Does he know why?

“I am pained by a sense that I do nothing with my life. I have a real terror of being called to account by God at the end of my days and Him saying, 'What have you done with what I gave you?’

“I don’t fear Him telling me off for being naughty, but I have always felt that I have not done enough.”

With such motivation, don’t expect Richard Coles to disappear any time soon.

'Fathomless Riches : Or How I Went From Pop To Pulpit’ by Richard Coles (Orion £20) is available to order from Telegraph Books at £17.00 + £1.95 p&p. Call 0844 871 1515 or visit books.telegraph.co.uk

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141020eaak0040k


Fury over growing Ebola panic as cruise passengers reach Texas
By Nick Allen Dallas
652 words
20 October 2014
07:15 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
President Barack Obama fumes at Ebola response as US nurse on Carnival cruise ship tests negative after vessel docks

A visibly “seething” Barack Obama has berated his own aides for a bungled Ebola response.

The US President gathered officials in the Cabinet room at the White House to tell them he was “not satisfied” with the handling of the crisis, adding: “It’s not tight.”

Most of his anger was directed at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for being indecisive about the level of the threat, and failing to ensure staff at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas were trained well enough.

Thomas Eric Duncan, 42, the only fatality from the disease in the US, died at the hospital and two nurses there - Nina Pham , 26, and Amber Vinson, 29 - contracted Ebola from him. The two nurses are now being treated at the National Institutes of Health in Maryland.

Dr Anthony Fauci, a top official there, said the US had only four hospitals with a total of 11 beds to properly treat Ebola patients, which was not enough. He said: “It can’t just be four.”

The CDC had allowed Miss Vinson to get on a flight from Dallas to Cleveland, Ohio to prepare for her wedding.

The number of people in Ohio now being monitored for signs of the disease has risen to over 100, including her six bridesmaids.

Miss Vinson flew on Frontier Airlines. In an effort to assuage public concern the airline’s chief executive David Siegel personally took a flight, sitting in the same seat Miss Vinson had used. He claimed it was now probably the “cleanest” plane in the sky.

But the sense of panic spread to a cruise ship when it emerged a lab technician who handled blood samples from Mr Duncan at the Dallas hospital had been allowed to take a holiday.

The Carnival Magic set sail for the Caribbean from Galveston, Texas on Oct 12. Several days into the cruise the female lab worker identified herself to the captain and quarantined herself in her cabin.

The governments of Belize and Mexico then refused entry to the ship and passengers described scenes of “panic” as cleaning staff in masks disinfected parts of the boat.

As the ship arrived back in Galveston a blood test on the woman came back negative for Ebola and she was allowed to go home in her own car.

Carnival Cruise Lines said she had only ever been at “very low risk".

William Pooley, 29, from Eyke in Suffolk, the British nurse who recovered from the virus explained his reasons for returning to Sierra Leone. He said doctors were unsure whether he would now be immune, but he wanted to return and help prevent more deaths.

He said: "I know my Mum and Dad are worried but they support me because they know this is something I have to do."

An emotional memorial service was held for Mr Duncan in North Carolina where his mother was seen weeping and being comforted by relatives.

Meanwhile, the Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital apologised in a full page advertisement in the Dallas Morning News.

Chief executive Barclay Berdan said: “As an institution we made mistakes in handling this very difficult challenge.”

In a separate interview Dr Gary Weinstein, who treated Mr Duncan, angrily denied suggestions the patient had not received the best care.

Dr Weinstein said he found the suggestion “remarkably insulting".

He also spoke emotionally about treating his own nurse, Nina Pham, for Ebola and hugging her through protective clothing.

Dr Weinstein said: “I felt sunken. I felt horrible for her. She was scared. She risked her life to care for a patient, and now she was afraid for her life.

“A hug through a couple of layers of plastic is probably not as comforting as she needed."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141019eaaj003uz


NEWS
Spain, Norway and Luxemburg donate less to battle Ebola than Ikea
By Georgia Graham Political Correspondent
750 words
20 October 2014
10:05 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The countries have committed just less than £2.5m to charities and countries fighting the disease in comparison to Ikea's donation of £4.2 million

Spain, Norway and Luxemburg have donated less money to the global battle against Ebola than Ikea.

Together the countries have committed just less than £2.5m to charities and countries fighting the disease in comparison to a donation of £4.2 million from the Swedish furniture seller.

It compares to £125 million in donations from Britain alone.

According to the UN's Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs aid tracker [http://fts.unocha.org/reports/daily/ocha_R10_E16506_asof___1410190300.pdf] Spain has so far donated as £335,871, Luxemburg £359,613 and Norway £1,743,507.

However Norway say only part of their contributions have been channeled through the OCHA and it doesn't give a fair representation of their contribution. The Government says their total donations stands at £30 million.

Labour has demanded that countries that are failing to meet their responsiblilities should be named and shamed. This week David Cameron wrote to 27 of his fellow European leaders to "step up" and increase their donations so that Europe as a whole will have donated €1 billion - or or £796million by the middle of November.

Jim Murphy, Labour's shadow internation development secretary, claimed that many Western countries had given less aid than businesses such as Swedish furniture retailer or individuals such as Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook.

Mr Zuckerberg and his wife Dr Priscilla Chan, are donating over £15 million to the fight against the worst-ever Ebola outbreak in west Africa.

Ikea's charitable foundation has given £3.9 million to Médecins Sans Frontières has received €5m to support the organisation’s medical relief efforts for those stricken with the disease.

Britain has already donated £125 million to battle the disease but some European countries have been criticised for their slow response to the crisis.

Mr Murphy said: "The second thing is the scale of the response. I think the United Kingdom is doing well in terms of the scale of the response. It could be quicker, but we also now have to pursue other countries to do their bit.

"The fact is that the founder of FacebookMark Zuckerberg has given many more times than other countries like Italy. Ikea has given more, or about the same as Italy. There are countries that need to do better, we have to say that publicly. If countries won’t do their bit we’ve got to embarrass them. This is going to affect us all unless we check it in West Africa.”

“This is the single biggest threat since the emergence of HIV. The world acted together once the scale of HIV became clear, and that’s just not happening here. We can’t have an attitude, surely, saying that these are three countries people rarely visit, that people couldn’t point to on a map, saying it’s happening a long way away.

"These are fellow human beings who are dying because they don’t have the basic health systems in their country because they have a virus spreading amongst their communities. The world hasn’t acted to deal with some way of treating this virus.”

Italy have donated £1.4 million in committed funded and £5.3 million in uncommitted funds.

Last week David Cameron wrote to 27 European leaders and Herman Van Rompuy, the leader of the European Council to demand that other countries "step up" and dramatically increase they have spent in the fight against Ebola.

The Prime Minister described the disease as the "biggest health problem facing our world in a generation" as he challenged his fellow leaders to provide €1 billion - or £796million - to defeat the disease.

It is thought European countries together have donated less than half this amount so far.

Mr Cameron said Britain was currently leading the fight as he suggested some countries were not yet pulling their weight in terms of donations and resources.

More money and support will not only help people in immediate danger in West Africa and protect European citizens from the spreading of the deadly disease, he told them.

He said that European countries must provide use some of the £796 million to bring at least 2,000 health workers to the region by the middle of next month. These workers should include at least 1,000 clinical staff.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141020eaak000p5


NEWS
Ebola crisis: Nigeria free of deadly virus, say health chiefs
By Colin Freeman
718 words
20 October 2014
04:57 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Nigeria received rare praise from health officials as the World Health Organisation declared there had been no confirmed outbreak in the country for 42 days.

Health chiefs declared Nigeria to be officially free of the deadly Ebola virus yesterday, giving rare praise to the country's government for containing an outbreak that could have proved disastrous.

In an unexpected glimmer of hope in the battle against Ebola, Nigerian officials successfully tracked down and quarantined nearly 1,000 possible carriers of the virus after an initial case back in June.

The operation confounded fears that the giant West African nation was likely to become a major breeding ground for Ebola, given its huge cities, poor health service, and reputation for chaotic government.

Yesterday, the World Health Organization announced that Nigeria had not had a confirmed case of Ebola for 42 days - equivalent to two successive incubation periods of 21 days - effectively giving it a clean bill of health.

The announcent is a relief to WHO officials, who had feared the outbreak would be uncontrollable were it to spread to Nigeria's lawless north-east, where the Boko Haram insurgent group holds sway.

"This is a spectacular success story," said Rui Gama Vaz, a WHO spokesman, at a news conference in the Nigerian capital, Abuja, where officials broke into applause when he said Nigeria had shaken off the disease. "It shows that Ebola can be contained."

Unflattering comparisons are now likely to be drawn between Nigeria's success and the mishandling of the recent Ebola outbreak in America, where President Barack Obama berated health officials on Sunday for a series of mishaps. In Texas, some 120 people are still being monitored for possible infection, although yesterday officials said that 43 of 48 people on an original watch list had now passed a 21-day incubation period.

The Nigerian outbreak began when Patrick Sawyer, a Liberian diplomat working for his country's finance ministry, arrived at Lagos's main airport on July 20. He had flown despite knowing that he had been exposed to the virus, and vomited while on the plane, infecting a number of other passengers. He then collapsed in the airport terminal building.

At the time, Nigeria's doctors were on strike, potentially making the country even more vulnerable to an Ebola outbreak. But that proved to be a blessing in disguise. Rather than being taken to one of Lagos's large public hospitals, where he could have waited for hours for treatment and infected hundreds of patients and medics alike, Mr Sawyer ended up at a private clinic, where doctors soon suspected he was lying about his claim to be suffering from malaria.

They alerted the ministry of health and forbade him to leave the hospital, physically restraining him at one point when he demanded to do so. The confrontations are believed to have resulted in several of the clinic's medical staff being infected, including Dr Stella Adadevoh, the doctor who first recognised his symptoms as Ebola.

"We agreed that the thing to do was not to let him out of the hospital," said Benjamin Ohiaeri, a medic at the First Consultants Hospital. "If we had let him out, within 24 hours of being here, he would have contacted and infected a lot more people."

Nigeria's government - accused of incompetence over its response to Boko Haram's abduction of more than 200 schoolgirls - also showed initiative. In all, nearly 900 people had to be monitored and traced throughout the country, a task for which the government trained some 1,800 volunteers, who then knocked on the doors of nearly 26,000 homes. In Lagos, Babatunde Fashola, a well-regarded state governor now tipped as a future president, also rushed back from a pilgrimage to Mecca to oversee the crisis.

Elsewhere in west Africa, the Ebola crisis remains acute. Last night, European Union foreign ministers agreed to step up efforts to contain the virus, including a guarantee that any European medical workers who volunteer to help in west Africa have the option of medical evacuation should they become infected. The World Food Program also warned that Ebola-hit countries were facing food shortages, as farmers abandon crops and livestock near infected neighbourhoods.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141020eaak005mt


FINANCE
How eurozone gloom is blighting the UK housing market
By Anna White Property and enterprise correspondent
563 words
20 October 2014
12:34 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
After soaring to a six year high in July, the mortgage market tails off under a eurozone cloud

UK mortgage lending fell in September as buyers grew wary of taking on more debt, according to the Council of Mortgage Lenders.

The industry body said that worrying economic news coming out of the eurozone will continue to shake the UK housing and mortgage markets.

Gross mortgage lending fell from £18bn in August to £17.8bn in September - new data released this morning has shown.

Lending levels are 10pc higher than last September, the month before Help to Buy phase two was introduced to the market, giving mortgage lending a massive boost. But gross lending has gradually fallen since highs in July.

"Uncertainty over when we will see the first increase in UK base rate is exacerbated by weaker growth prospects in several major economies, including the eurozone," said Bob Pannell, CML chief economist.

Earlier this month the International Monetary Fund reported that growth in Japan and China had disappointed, while the eurozone shows every sign of slipping back into recession, the third such contraction since the crisis of 2008-9.

Such news could dampen investment into the London property market and continue to worry lenders and buyers alike. The impending general election is has also had a cooling affect on housing activity.

"Recent indicators and policy actions coorborate our view of a gentle easing in market conditions," said Mr Pannell.

“There are also some extraordinary global issues spooking everyone at the moment which leads to a whole host of uncertainty; the strength of the global economy, return of Eurozone issues, Russia, Ukraine, the Middle East and Ebola to name but a few," said Andrew Montlake, mortgage advisor, Coreco.

"This has led to stock markets across the world falling last week and oil battles have pushed prices to unexpected lows. All of this has an effect on borrowers perception and confidence."

Gross mortgage lending for the third quarter of this year reached an estimated £55.5bn, an 8pc rise from the second quarter of this year and a 13pc rise on the third quarter, the CML found.

This spike has been driven by a peak performance in July. Since then the market has tailed off due to stricter mortgage criteria, over-inflated asking prices and uncertainty surrounding the first interest rate rise from record lows.

The Bank of England’s Trends in Lending Survey for October, also released today, said that some of the slowdown in mortgage lending over the summer was due to lenders getting to grips with operation issues related to the introduction of the Mortgage Market Review in late-April.

However, the fact that mortgage approvals in August remained substantially below their January 2014 peak levels even though lenders are now getting to grips with the MMR suggests that there has been an underlying loss of momentum, said Howard Archer, chief economist for IHG Global Insights.

HSBC has announced it will cut mortgage rates to an “astonishing” 0.99 per cent, a record low, igniting a price war that will reduce the cost of home loans by thousands of pounds. [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/personalfinance/borrowing/mortgages/11170759/HSBC-slashes-mortgage-rates-to-0.99pc.html]

The new loan from HSBC is the cheapest ever in Britain - an attempt to boost the housing market could boom again after a summer lull.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141020eaak002h3


Ebola fears on the cocktail party circuit: the return of air kissing
By Olivia Goldhill
550 words
20 October 2014
12:22 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
High society events have adopted their own precautions against the deadly disease – prepare to say ‘mwah’

Ebola has not yet spread to the UK, but that hasn’t stopped the virus from invading the social scene. As doctors, nurses and security experts work to protect Britain from Ebola contagion, high-society socialites have developed their own preventative measures. In the battle between social taboos and deadly diseases, overly-cautious It Girls have embraced the ultimate faux pas. Forget that air kissing ever went out of style – the ‘mwah’ has made a comeback.

Charlotte, a 25-year-old who works at a London gallery, said she noticed the resurgence of air-kissing in the past week, which has been crammed with glamorous parties for the art world.

“It’s been Frieze art fair week so there’s been lots of cocktail parties and I’ve noticed quite a lot of the fashionable ladies air-kissing,” she says. “They would not touch my face, and this happened to me five times. I said, ‘do I smell?’”

Charlotte says it was mainly sophisticated ladies in their 50s who were taking part in air-kissing. “I think it’s really strange,” she says. “Even during flu-season, air-kissing doesn’t normally happen – I think it’s because of Ebola.”

Etiquette expert William Hanson says that, pre-Ebola, air kissing was seen as pretentious and affected.

“It gives the impression, ‘I don’t really want to make contact with you but I’m going through the motions of looking like I like you’,” he says. “Air kissing might have been popular among the yuppies in the eighties but that doesn’t necessarily mean it was correct from an etiquette point of view. These things happen – the fist bump was quite popular five years ago amongst teenagers, but that doesn’t mean to say that was correct.”

Although air kissing is an insincere form of greeting, Mr Hanson says there are occasions where it could be appropriate.

“In usual, non-Ebola climates, air kissing is not particularly acceptable,” he says. “Perhaps the only time it would be acceptable is if ladies who are greeting each other are about to go out to an evening event and they’ve just put on their make up. If one lady doesn’t want to get Yves Saint Laurent on Chanel then that perhaps would be the time that they would air kiss, because they don’t want the cross-contamination of make up.”

Despite being an uncouth manner of greeting, Mr Hanson says that a highly contagious disease is a justifiable reason to air-kiss.

“I can see that, with people’s concerns for Ebola, perhaps there’s a need – it’s much better to be alive and Ebola-free than contaminated,” he says.

But even in times of deadly viruses, there are alternatives to air kissing. Mr Hanson suggests a friendly wave for those who prefer no contact, or a touch on the arm for those who are happy with slight physical interactions.

“Ebola is mainly contagious through the eyes and mouth so you’ll probably be fine with a handshake,” he says. “And if you’re that worried, then stay indoors.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141020eaak00463


How Nigeria beat the Ebola virus
By Myles Burke and Colin Freeman
495 words
20 October 2014
10:48 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Nigeria's success in stamping out the deadly haemorrhagic fever Ebola is being hailed as a model for countries struggling to contain the deadly virus

The World Health Organisation declared Nigeria[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/nigeria/] free of the deadly Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] virus on Monday after six weeks with no new cases, an achievement with lessons for countries still struggling to contain the deadly virus.

This year's Ebola outbreak, the worst on record, has killed 4,546 people across the three most-affected countries, Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone.

Its arrival in Lagos, an overcrowded city of 21 million people[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11027606/Why-I-fear-the-Ebola-virus-threat-in-Lagos.html], sparked fears of a doomsday scenario in which it becomes impossible to contain because contacts are too diffuse to trace.

As the commercial hub of Africa's most populous nation, largest economy and leading energy producer, it would have been an ideal springboard for Ebola to spread across the country.

The first case in Nigeria was imported from Liberia when Liberian-American diplomat Patrick Sawer collapsed at the main international airport in Lagos on July 20.

Authorities were caught unawares, airport staff were not prepared and the government had not set up any hospital isolation unit, so he was able to infect several people, including health workers in the hospital where he was taken.

But they acted fast after the doctor on duty, who later herself died of the disease, quarantined him in the hospital against his will and contacted officials.

Doctor Ameyo Adadevoh at the First Consultants hospital in Lagos where Sawyer was first brought kept him in the hospital despite his protests and those of the Liberian government, preventing the dying man from spreading it further, according to Benjamin Ohiaeri, a doctor there who survived the disease.

Ebola is much more contagious once symptoms become severe.

"We agreed that the thing to do was not to let him out of the hospital," Dr Ohiaeri said, even after he became aggressive and demanded to be set free.

"If we had let him out, within 24 hours of being here, he would have contacted and infected a lot more people ... The lesson there is: stand your ground."

Once the hospital contacted the ministries of health in the state of Lagos and the federal ministry in Abuja, authorities quickly set up and equipped an isolation unit.

Nigeria's success in preventing the spread of the disease contrasts with its slower and more fractious response to crises such as the kidnapping in April of more than 200 girls still being held by Islamist militant group Boko Haram.

The announcement that Nigeria has, for now at least, stamped out the deadly haemorrhagic fever, follows a similar declaration in much smaller Senegal, where one case was imported from Guinea.

Officials hope such success stories will change the way the West, where many are currently in the grip of a panic about a disease brought to their shores from Africa, sees the crisis.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141020eaak003pe


TRAVEL
Ebola fears hurting African tourism
By Natalie Paris
740 words
20 October 2014
10:22 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Travellers putting trips to countries unaffected by Ebola, such as South Africa and Kenya, on hold

Africa’s tourism industry is feeling the affects of concerns about Ebola, with one operator noting, "it's difficult to defeat fear with logic".

Tourism is a major source of revenue for many African countries — especially Kenya and South Africa — but potential visitors appear increasingly hesitating about travelling to the continent which is home to the disease.

Even travellers well aware of the distances between the West Africa countries with Ebola cases – Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone – and more popular tourist destinations, are exercising caution when booking a holiday.

“Things have accelerated a lot in the last few weeks,” said Chris McIntyre from UK tour company Expert Africa. “We haven't had any cancellations, but people are often putting trips on hold, and not confirming them, because of worries over Ebola. And fewer people are planning trips right now.

“Even bookings from our Africa-savvy travellers are now being affected quite considerably. We're not surprised; the news on the disease is serious.”

In Nigeria, which was today declared free of the virus, occupancy rates in five-star hotels in the commercial capital Lagos have fallen drastically. Many conferences have been postponed until further notice, according to Nigerian economist Bismarck Rewane of the Financial Derivatives Company, who spoke to the Associated Press.

Occupancy rates now generally hover around 30 per cent instead of the 65 per cent that is typical at this time of year, and the drop is even higher at bars and restaurants in the city, he said.

“I think that something which is as emotive as Ebola generates so much fear in people that it's almost impossible to 'reassure them' with logic,” said Mr McIntyre. “We might say that Southern Africa is a similar distance to West Africa as it is to London, and it's had less Ebola cases than Dallas or Madrid … but no logic helps here.

“A holiday is a very discretionary purchase. Nobody has to go on holiday to Africa, or to anywhere else in the world. Everybody has lots of choices, including staying at home.

Has Ebola made you think twice about travel to Africa?[http://polldaddy.com/poll/8386961/]

“So right now, more people are choosing to wait and see for a bit before they consider booking a holiday - and whilst this fear may be hitting the African market first, it's clearly possible that it won't stop there.”

Hoteliers in Kenya also claim that the outbreak is hurting business. Harald Kampa, a hotelier near Mombasa, told AP that for two weeks in August he had no international arrivals at his Diani Sea Resort, leading him to suspect that Ebola had frightened away his clients. He noticed an improvement only after Kenya Airways cancelled flights to the Ebola-hit West African nations of Sierra Leone and Liberia.

In South Africa there is "alarm in the market" stemming from misconceptions about how the Ebola virus can be contracted and the location of the affected countries, said the Tourism Business Council of South Africa.

Even though the World Health Organization and international trade groups say there is low risk of transmitting the virus during air travel, major airlines such as British Airways, Kenya Airways and Air France have cancelled flights to some Ebola-hit countries.

Safaris are suffering too, according to the Netherlands-based firm Safari Bookings. It reported that more than half of 500 operators[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/destinations/africaandindianocean/11113615/Ebola-concerns-harming-safari-bookings.html] it questioned a month ago claimed bookings were down by between 20 to 70 per cent.

“It is a heavy blow for the industry and the numerous wildlife reserves that rely on its revenue,” a company spokesman said.

The Foreign Office advises against all but essential travel to Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea except for those involved in the direct response to the Ebola outbreak.

Win one of 40 holidays worth £800,000 [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/travel-competitions/10944252/Telegraph-Travel-Awards-2014.html]

Telegraph Travel Awards 2014: vote for your favourite destinations and travel companies for the chance to win one of 40 luxury breaks worth a total of £800,000. Closes on October 27, 2014.

Travel Guides app [https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/travel-guides-by-telegraph/id793779955?mt=8]

Download the free Telegraph Travel app[https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/travel-guides-by-telegraph/id793779955?mt=8], featuring expert guides to destinations including Paris, Rome, New York, Venice and Amsterdam

Sign up to our weekly email newsletter [http://pages.email.telegraph.co.uk/Travel2011/?source=EmailSignup]

Follow Telegraph Travel on Twitter [https://twitter.com/TelegraphTravel]

Follow Telegraph Travel on Facebook[https://www.facebook.com/Telegraphtravel]

Follow Telegraph Travel on Pinterest[http://www.pinterest.com/telegraphmedia/]

Follow Telegraph Travel on FourSquare[https://foursquare.com/telegraph]

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141020eaak002mq


NEWS
HSBC slashes mortgage rates to 0.99pc
By Dan Hyde Consumer Affairs Editor
995 words
20 October 2014
07:45 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Hopes that 'astonishing' offer will ignite a price war among lenders, as Bank of England says 'gloomier' economic forecasts could keep interest rates low

One of Britain’s biggest banks will cut mortgage[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/personalfinance/borrowing/mortgages/] rates to an “astonishing” 0.99 per cent, a record low, igniting a price war that will reduce the cost of home loans by thousands of pounds.

The new loan from HSBC is the cheapest ever in Britain, mortgage experts said, and indicated that the housing market could boom again after a summer lull.

It comes after the Bank of England said on Thursday that interest rates could stay low for longer[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11168724/Andrew-Haldane-interest-rates-could-stay-low-for-longer-in-gloomier-economy.html] due to “gloomier” forecasts for the global economy.

Mortgage brokers said someone borrowing £150,000 could cut monthly repayments by £3,500 a year by switching to the new deal. The saving could rise above £10,000 for borrowers with larger homes.

Borrowers should expect a flurry of “headline-grabbing” deals, experts said, with banks competing fiercely for custom as the year drew to a close.

David Hollingworth of brokerage London & Country said: “This is a massive price cut, it’s an astonishingly low rate and will allow some families to cut huge amounts off their bills.

“The summer is always quiet in the property market, but now lenders are are showing an appetite to fight for business - and that competition is excellent news for home owners and property prices.”

The Bank of England, invoking a cricketing metaphor, said it would play “on the back foot” as it planned its next interest rate rise.

Andy Haldane, one of nine policymakers who decides Bank Rate, said low wage growth in Britain, falling oil prices and global “risks”, such as geopolitical tensions in Ukraine, Hong Kong and the Ebola crisis, had made him “gloomier" about the prospects for the economy.

"Interest rates could remain lower for longer, certainly than I had expected three months ago,” he said in a speech in Kenilworth.

The 0.5 per cent Bank Rate to now expected to rise in late 2015, rather than the spring, allowing borrowers to enjoy lower costs for longer.

Mark Harris of mortgage brokerage SPF Private Clients said that gave the green light for lenders to reduce loan rates to new lows.

Within six months, borrowers might be able to lock into a five-year fixed-rate deal at less than two per cent, he said, marking a significant reduction from 2.59 per cent today.

If better mortgage deals stimulated activity in the housing market, the experts said, it could fuel house price rises.

Figures this week gave further indication of a slowdown in the pace at which property prices were rising. Prices had risen 11.7 per cent in a year, according to the Office for National Statistics, valuing the average property at £274,000. House prices in London were still rising faster than the rest of the country, increasing 19.6 per cent in 12 months, the ONS said. Its data followed a survey from Nationwide Building Society that indicated prices fell slightly in September.

Martin Beck, an economist at the Ernst & Young ITEM Club, said: “In isolation, falling mortgage rates and an imminent price war could spur demand and certainly act to boost the housing market.

“But there are factors cooling the market that are impossible to ignore, with surveyors reporting the number of houses on sale falling and fewer people looking to buy.

“House prices, for many people, have risen so high that they've lost interest - but more affordable mortgage rates could stop this holding back demand."

The Bank of England has warned a bubble in house prices could tip the UK back into recession if it expands too quickly.

A concern that home buyers were over-stretching themselves led the Bank to limit the number of people borrowing more than four-and-a-half times their salaries. Borrowers, it has said, may also be asked to find larger deposits.

HSBC’s 0.99 per cent loan is available from Monday, provided borrowers have a 40 per cent deposit or equity in the property.

The cost is linked to the bank’s standard variable rate (SVR) of 3.94 per cent. It is effectively a 2.95 per cent “discount” from that rate, lasting for two years. After that, borrowers will need to remortgage or their costs will rise.

A spokesman for HSBC said the SVR was only likely to rise within the two-year period if Base Rate increased, probably by a similar amount.

Mr Hollingworth warned that the “catch" with the deal was a £1,999 set-up fee, which he described as “high”. As a result, it was more suited to people borrowing large amounts, he said.

On a £150,000 loan, monthly repayments would be £565, compared with £855 on a lender’s typical standard variable rate, reducing annual bills by £3,480. Someone borrowing £500,000 - the maximum amount allowed by HSBC on its new loan - could cut costs by £11,628 a year.

The next best deal was a 1.44 per cent rate from Norwich & Peterborough, Mr Hollingworth said. The monthly cost of £596 was £31 more expensive than the HSBC deal for someone borrowing £150,000. However, the fee was just £345.

Fewer mortgages were issued over the summer due to the introduction of strict rules that required lenders to delve into borrowers’ spending habits to check they could afford the repayments if interest rates rose.

However lenders, under pressure to meet their end of year targets, were likely to increase their ranges of mortgages in the autumn and winter, experts said.

Rachel Springall of financial information website Moneyfacts said: "We are likely to see more headline-grabbing deals as the year comes to a close.”

The great mortgage giveaway: variable loans at 1pc – and a five-year fix at 2pc?[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/a/11169030]

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141017eaah004s9


NEWS
Ebola: Spanish nurse tests negative for virus
By Joel Gunter and agencies
580 words
20 October 2014
07:33 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Nurse who became first person to contract disease outside west Africa has been given the all clear, pending a confirmation test

A Spanish nursing assistant who became the first person to be infected with Ebola outside west Africa is now clear of all traces of the virus nearly two weeks after she was hospitalized, authorities said on Sunday.

Teresa Romero, 44, contracted the disease after treating two patients who had travelled from Liberia at a Madrid hostpital.

Romero tested positive for the virus on 6 October and has been quarantined at Madrid's Carlos III hospital since then.

A statement released by the Spanish government Ebola crisis committee on Sunday said a blood test revealed that Romero's immune system had eliminated the virus from her body.

A second test in the coming hours is needed to absolutely confirm Romero's recovery, said Manuel Cuenca, microbiology director at Madrid's Carlos III health care complex.

Romero had treated two patients who died of Ebola at Carlos III hospital. The first, Miguel Pajares, contracted the disease in Liberia and died on 12 August despite having been treated with the experimental drug ZMapp. The second was Manuel Garcia Viejo who died on 25 September, aged 69.

Health authorities quarantined Romero's husband, as well as a hairdresser, another nurse and a cleaner who had come into contact with Romero.

Authorities also controversially put down Romero's pet dog Excalibur instead of placing it in quarantine, creating outrage among animal rights activists.

Spain, meanwhile, has agreed to allow the US to use two military bases in the southwest of the country to support its efforts to combat the Ebola outbreak in West Africa.

A statement from the Spanish defense ministry said the deal permits US armed forces to use the air base at Moron de la Frontera near Seville and the naval station at Rota on Spain's Atlantic coast to transport personnel and materials to and from Africa. Defense Minister Pedro Morenes sealed the deal with US counterpart Chuck Hagel in Washington.

The ministry statement, released late on Saturday, said the agreement will be reviewed and updated on a case-by-case basis and would also permit US forces to use the bases against Isil militants. The US has made use of the bases since the 1950s.

US President Barack Obama was reportedly furious on Sunday and berated his own aides for bungling the response to Ebola infections on US soil.

US health bodies including the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) have been heavily criticised for not properly training staff at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas, which discharged a man who presented with Ebola symptoms after travelling from Liberia, allowing him to come into contact with family and others.

Thomas Eric Duncan, 42, who died from the disease, infected two nurses at the hospital - Nina Pham , 26, and Amber Vinson, 29.

The CDC was also criticised for allowing Miss Vinson to board a flight from Dallas to Cleveland, Ohio to prepare for her wedding and a lab technician who handled blood samples from Mr Duncan to board a packed cruise ship.

The ship - Carnival Magic - was refused permission to dock in the Carribbean after the lab technician quarantined herself in her cabin as a precaution and was forced to return to its departure point at Galveston, Texas.

The lab technician was later given the all-clear.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141019eaaj004xv


News
Ikea Ebola donation dwarfs Spain's
Nick Allen; Georgia Graham
566 words
20 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; Scotland
2
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
SPAIN, Norway and Luxembourg have together donated less money to the global fight against Ebola than Ikea, according to the United Nations.

It said the three European countries have committed less than £2.5million, in comparison to a donation of £4.2million from the Swedish furniture seller. Britain has given £125million.

Labour has demanded that countries not meeting their responsibilities be named, while David Cameron has written to 27 fellow European leaders telling them to "step up" donations.

A British nurse who caught Ebola in Sierra Leone and survived was last night due back there. William Pooley, 29, from Eyke in Suffolk, said doctors were unsure whether he would now be immune, but he wanted to return and try to help prevent more deaths.

As Western governments faced further pressure over their response to the crisis in West Africa, which has killed more than 4,500 people, Barack Obama, the US president, criticised his senior aides for their handling of the disease in America.

Mr Obama was visibly angry as he gathered officials in the Cabinet room at the White House, the New York Times reported. The president reportedly told staff he was "not satisfied" with the handling of the crisis, adding: "It's not tight."

Much of his anger was directed at the Centres for Disease Control (CDC) and Prevention over indecision about the level of the threat and failing to ensure staff at the Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas were sufficiently trained.

Thomas Eric Duncan, 42, the only person to have died from the disease in the US, was treated at the Texas hospital and two nurses there – Nina Pham, 26, and Amber Vinson, 29, contracted Ebola from him. They are being treated at the National Institutes of Health in Maryland.

The Texas hospital ran a full–page apology in the Dallas Morning News.

In an interview, Dr Gary Weinstein, who treated Mr Duncan, angrily denied suggestions that the patient had not received the best care.

The CDC had allowed Miss Vinson to board a flight from Dallas to Cleveland, Ohio, to prepare for her wedding. The number of people in Ohio now being monitored for signs of the disease has risen to more than 100, including her six bridesmaids.

The sense of panic spread to a cruise ship when it emerged that a laboratory technician who handled blood samples from Mr Duncan at the Dallas hospital had been allowed to take a cruise.

The Carnival Magic set sail from Galveston, Texas, on Oct 12. Several days into the cruise the technician identified herself to the captain and went into quarantine in her cabin. As the ship arrived back in Galveston a blood test taken from her came back negative for Ebola.

A blood test on a Spanish nursing assistant who became the first person to be infected with Ebola in Europe has come back clear, according to a statement issued yesterday on behalf of the Spanish prime minister.

The test showed that Teresa Romero's body was clear of all traces of the virus, according to the statement released by Mariano Rajoy's office. Doctors in Madrid are now awaiting the results of a second test to confirm the all–clear.

Ms Romero, 44, treated two patients who died of Ebola at the hospital earlier this month after travelling from Liberia.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141020eaak000an


News; Front Page
Senior medical figures back plans to offer dying patients access to untested treatments
Christopher Hope
671 words
20 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; Scotland
1
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
DYING patients could be given access to untested medicines from early next year after the Government and senior doctors gave their backing to a Bill proposed by Lord Saatchi.

Jeremy Hunt, the Health Secretary, has thrown his department's weight behind the Medical Innovation Bill, which will make it easier for doctors to try out new treatments on patients without the fear of being sued.

The Bill – which has divided the medical profession – has also received tentative backing from the General Medical Council (GMC), which in April came out firmly against any change in the law, and a leading cancer charity.

The legislation was proposed by Lord Saatchi, the advertising entrepreneur, who began campaigning on the issue after his wife, Josephine Hart, died from ovarian cancer.

Lord Saatchi told The Daily Telegraph that the principle of allowing new drugs to be tested on desperately ill people was already being applied in the case of Ebola victims in Africa.

"In dealing with the deadly Ebola outbreak, the World Health Organisation has decided that departure from standard evidence–based treatment is fully justified and essential," he said. "It has set ethical guidelines for the use of new therapies and interventions – they are identical to the provisions of the Medical Innovation Bill."

Supporters said that the plans – which could be law in England by March – will allow victims of rare cancers to volunteer to be treated with untried drugs.

Bypassing the need for years of clinical trials will bring down the cost of the medicine and may make pharmaceutical firms more likely to fund experimental drugs that only help a small number of people with rare diseases.

The Bill will be debated in the Lords on Friday and is due to be considered by MPs in the Commons in December. Supporters said it now had a 75 per cent chance of becoming law.

The Government has decided to support the Bill after new safeguards were agreed with Sir Bruce Keogh, the medical director of NHS England. Currently, doctors routinely ask hospital colleagues for an opinion before departing from standard treatment for patients in what is called the "Bolam test".

The amended Bill will require them to seek consent from other specialists in the field before trying out untested medical treatments. Mr Hunt is hoping the extra safeguard for patients will see off claims the Bill is a "quacks' charter".

A spokesman for the Department of Health said: "Innovation is at the heart of modernising the NHS and is essential for improving treatments and finding new cures and work on the Medical Innovation Bill is ongoing. We are pleased that Lord Saatchi has tabled amendments to the Bill to help ensure patient and staff safety."

A source added: "The Government is currently minded to support the Bill as amended by Lord Saatchi."

The amendments have persuaded the GMC to give its tentative support. Prof Sir Peter Rubin, the GMC chairman, said: "Medicine is a risky business. There are many people alive today because of the willingness of doctors to innovate, deal with uncertainty and take reasonable risks which are understood, shared with, and consented to, by the patient in accordance with good medical practice.

While we welcome the amendments to the Bill, we look forward to seeing the final version."

Cancer Research UK, which had expressed concerns, also now supports the change in the law.

Sarah Woolnough, the charity's director of policy and information, said the amendments "are an improvement", but "we will monitor the Bill's progress closely" Some doctors remained concerned. Michael Baum, Professor Emeritus of Surgery at University College London, said: "Never once have we encountered interference or obstruction due to fear of litigation.

"There are of course many other obstacles to progress but changing the law with this Bill is not going to accelerate innovation in cancer therapy, but might, as a result of unintended consequences, endanger our patients by uncontrolled experimentation."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141020eaak000am


Editorial; Opinion, Leading articles
Saatchi's model Bill
318 words
20 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
21
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
THE DAILY TELEGRAPH Established 1855

A patient is dying of cancer – or, to make the example more topical, Ebola. There is a radical new treatment that may just save her life, but it has not yet passed all the necessary trials. If doctors do nothing, however, she will surely die. What do they do? It was to address this conundrum that Lord Saatchi introduced his Medical Innovation Bill. Following the death of his wife from ovarian cancer, he realised that there were many cases in which doctors felt unable to experiment with treatments, even in desperate cases where established procedures offered no hope of a cure. At the moment, doctors are deterred from taking such risks by fear of being sued for negligence: if they do depart from convention, they face being hauled into court and subjected to the retrospective scrutiny of their peers. Under the Bill's proposals, they will be able to gain prior approval, once they have outlined in detail why they think their alternative approach is worth a shot.

In an age of corrosive cynicism about politics, the Bill's progress is a reassuring sign that the system can still work as intended. Lord Saatchi used his position in Parliament to introduce his proposal. There was a long period of consultation with the public, medical professionals and their representative bodies, and the Bill was also subjected to the scrutiny of those on the red benches. As a result, changes were made that improved and refined the proposals. The idea had already been endorsed in principle by Jeremy Hunt, the Health Secretary, and now the General Medical Council is making encouraging noises, too. Its support would pave the way for the proposal to be incorporated into law – thereby not just helping patients, but pushing forward the frontiers of medical innovation. What more worthy cause could there be?

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141020eaak0003a


NEWS
Blood sample from woman on 'Ebola cruise' flown to US as ship prepares to dock in Texas
By Harriet Alexander
348 words
19 October 2014
09:29 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Coast Guard officials have taken a blood sample from a woman on-board the Carnival Magic cruise ship, after she quarantined herself over fears she may have caught Ebola

A woman who has locked herself in her room on a cruise ship as a quarantine measure for Ebola [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] has given a blood sample, which is being flown from the ship for analysis.

The ship on which she is travelling is due to dock in Texas at 8am on Sunday.

The unnamed passenger worked as a laboratory supervisor at the Texas hospital where Thomas Eric Duncan, the first person to die of Ebola in the US, was treated. She dealt with samples from Duncan and so, when the Centre for Disease Control changed its recommendations for quarantine, she decided to isolate herself – while on the cruise.

The Carnival Magic set off from Galveston, Texas on Sunday October 12, and is due to dock back at the same port, after a week-long cruise of the Caribbean. Attempts to take the woman off the ship failed when first Belize and then Mexico refused permission for her to set foot on their territory.

Petty Officer Andy Kendrick, from the American coast guard, said that a coast guard crew flew in a helicopter on Saturday to meet the Carnival Magic and lowered a basket of supplies. The woman provided a blood sample, which was taken to a state lab in Texas for processing.

The woman is said to be healthy and not showing symptoms of the Ebola virus, and is considered a very low risk.

State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said that when the woman left the US on the cruise ship from Texas, health officials were requiring only self-monitoring.

Carnival Cruise Lines said in a statement that the woman remained in isolation "and is not deemed to be a risk to any guests or crew."

There have been no restrictions placed on other passengers aboard the ship, officials said.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141019eaaj002bg


NEWS
British Ebola survivor Will Pooley returns to Sierra Leone
By Rebecca Smith Medical Editor
622 words
19 October 2014
09:29 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Will Pooley the British nurse who contracted Ebola is returning to Sierra Leone despite being told he may not be immune to the disease

British Ebola survivor Will Pooley is returning to Sierra Leone [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11166572/British-Ebola-survivor-returning-to-West-Africa-to-help-fight-virus.html] where he contracted the virus despite being told he may not be immune to it.

The nurse said returning to help the crisis in West Africa was the 'right thing to do'.

No one has ever been recorded catching Ebola [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] twice and it is thought Mr Pooley will have at least short term immunity against this strain of the disease but this has never been tested.

He has said he will act as if he is not immune and take the same precautions as other British staff in Freetown, the capital.

Mr Pooley is flying out to Sierra Leone on Sunday evening and will join a team from the King's Health Partners, a coalition of three NHS hospital trusts in London.

He told the Guardian [http://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2014/oct/19/will-pooley-ebola-returns-to-sierra-leone] that it was an “easy decision” and he cannot stand “idly by” and watch more die.

“I chose to go before and it was the right thing to do then and it’s still the right thing to do now," he said.

“I’m excited to get back out there. I want to get back to work,” he said.

He has donated litres of blood plasma both in Britain and in America for use in research into potential drugs and vaccines against the disease but also for direct use for patients with Ebola.

Plasma is said to the best hope of a viable treatment in the short-term as it can be safely injected into patients and transfers the antibodies from people who have recovered.

Mr Pooley said he feared the West's indifference to suffering in Africa will return once the Ebola crisis is over even though 70 times more people have died from malaria than Ebola this year.

He told the Guardian: “It’s a total shame we’re ignoring all this death going on not too far away, but it’s always been the case. It always will be.

“Take malaria: there are hundreds of thousands dying of malaria in Africa every year and it would be an outrage if it happened here, but because it’s happening there, people don’t mind. I think it’s terrible but it’s just how it is."

Mr Pooley was airlifted to Britain in August after contracting Ebola in Freetown, Sierra Leone. He was taken by military plane to London and transferred in a isolation tent to the Royal Free Hospital in London which has the primary dedicated high level isolation unit for such cases.

After treatment with the experimental drug ZMapp he made a full recovery and was discharged ten days later.

The World Health Organisation has warned that at the rate at twice the disease is spreading there could be 10,000 cases a week by December.

The risk to Britain is classified as low but hospitals, GPs, 111 and other health care professionals have been warned to ask about the travel history of people presenting with flu-like symptoms which can mirror the early stages of Ebola.

Airports have also begun screening travellers returning from countries with widespread cases.

As of October 14th the World Health Organisation has received reports of 9,216 confirmed, probable, and suspected cases of Ebola virus, affecting seven affected countries; Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Spain, and the United States of America.

The cases in Spain and America were imported from West Africa or were associated with caring for those patients.

There have been 4,555 deaths.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141019eaaj002bd


NEWS
Why America isn't banning travel from West Africa
By Nick Allen Dallas
580 words
19 October 2014
11:20 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
President Barack Obama is facing a chorus of calls from politicians, and the public, to ban air travel to the US from Ebola-affected countries. So why isn't he?

To many, it seems obvious how to stop Ebola reaching their shores – ban travel from the countries worst affected. So why isn't it happening?

It would stop aid workers and supplies getting to and from West Africa

Opponents of a ban say it's necessary to look at a bigger picture. Medical supplies, food and aid workers need to get to – and from – Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, the countries worst hit by Ebola. The US needs to pour resources into these nations to stop the epidemic. If it doesn't, the virus will spread further around the world and end up becoming even more of a threat to the US.

But couldn't there just be special flights for aid workers?

Theoretically, yes. But using private aircraft would be very costly and logistically difficult.

And there's another major problem with a ban?

Passengers arriving in the US from West Africa do so via a variety of other countries and airports like Heathrow, Brussels and Amsterdam. Instituting a ban would just encourage those passengers to lie about their travel history to avoid being stopped. That could lead to potentially infected people coming into the US without the authorities' knowledge. Under the present system they can be tracked. And what if Ebola spreads from West Africa to Europe? Would the US, using the same logic, then have to ban all flights from Europe?

Who still wants a ban anyway?

A slew of politicians including former Republican presidential candidate John McCain, Speaker of the House John Boehner, and Texas Governor Rick Perry. Mr Perry doesn't have the power to adopt an air ban in Texas and is calling on the federal government to do so. He says: "Air travel is in fact how this disease crosses borders. And it's certainly how it got to Texas in the first place." In Ohio 29 people are being monitored after coming into contact with nurse Amber Vinson, who has been diagnosed with Ebola. John Kasich, the state's governor, says the proposed travel ban "makes sense".

And who doesn't?

Lots of experts including Mike Leavitt, who was President George W. Bush's leading health official during the bird flu crisis. He says: "We studied it intensely in preparation for H5N1. I became persuaded that there are lots of problems with it."

What does President Obama think?

Mr Obama says he has no "philosophical objection" to a travel ban but he has taken advice from experts who say it wouldn't be effective.

So what is the government doing then?

They have introduced monitoring at the five US airports which receive 94 per cent of arrivals from West Africa. People arriving are having their temperature taken to see if they have a fever that could be a symptom of Ebola.

How many people are we actually talking about?

Not many. There are only about 150 people arriving in the US each day from the Ebola-affected region. Opponents of a travel ban say those passengers can be effectively monitored.

What other measures could be taken?

There are suggestions that US citizens arriving from West Africa should be quarantined for 21 days, the incubation period of the disease.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141019eaaj000dx


How close are we to curing Ebola?
By Keely Lockhart video source ITN
104 words
19 October 2014
09:29 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Ebola continues to ravage west Africa - but how close are we to finding a viable cure?

The Ebola[http://preview.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] oubreak continues to grab headlines as one of the most deadly and agressive diseases to sweep across the globe in recent times.

Despite the deadly threat that Ebola poses to the global population, scientists have so far failed to develop a credible vaccine.

We examine what it is about the virus that makes finding a cure such a tough task - and find out how soon scientists are likely to discover a viable vaccine.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141019eaaj002bf


News; Front Page
Cruise passengers in Ebola panic
NICK ALLEN
165 words
19 October 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
1; Scotland
1
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A CRUISE liner is due to arrive off Texas today after an Ebola scare on the high seas prompted Mexico to refuse to let the vessel dock.

The Carnival Magic was being carefully monitored after it emerged one of its passengers had worked in a hospital laboratory where she processed blood samples from Thomas Duncan, the first person in the US to die from the virus.

Other passengers have described scenes of "utter panic" on board with "tons of people crying" and dozens of staff "running around the ship in masks with a pink liquid".

The woman had boarded the ship with her husband in Galveston, Texas on October 12 for a week-long cruise to the Caribbean. That was four days after Mr Duncan died.

She has not displayed any symptoms but volunteered to quarantine herself with her husband after two nurses at her hospital were diagnosed with the disease.

Full story: Page 34

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141019eaaj000cl


News
How to stop the largest outbreak of fatal virus
843 words
19 October 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
2; National
34
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Q & A

Q What is Ebola?

A Ebola virus disease (EVD) is described by the World Health Organisation (WHO) as "a severe, often fatal illness in humans". It first appeared in 1976 in two simultaneous outbreaks - in Nzara, Sudan; and in Yambuku, in the Democratic Republic of Congo. The latter was in a village situated near the Ebola River, from which the disease takes its name.

The disease is mainly found in tropical Central and West Africa, and can have a 90 per cent mortality rate. In the current outbreak the death rates are running at about 70 per cent.

Q How bad is the current outbreak?

A The WHO and other international government agencies have reported a total of 4,493 deaths and 8,998 suspected cases of the disease. However the WHO believes that this substantially understates the magnitude of the outbreak, with possibly 2.5 times as many cases as have been reported.

Although this is the largest outbreak ever recorded of the disease there have been significant sporadic outbreaks in the past, mainly in Uganda, the DRC, Sudan and Gabon. The worst previous outbreak, in 2000 in Uganda, saw 425 people infected. Just over half died.

The current epidemic began in Guinea when a twoyear-old boy called Emile died on Dec 6 last year in the village of Meliandou, Guéckédou Prefecture. His mother, sister, and grandmother then became ill with similar symptoms and also died. People infected by those victims spread the disease to other villages, eventually crossing into neighbouring Liberia and Sierra Leone.

Last week, Dr Bruce Aylward, the assistant director-general of the WHO, stated that there could be as many as 10,000 new cases per week by December.

Q How is the virus transmitted?

A The virus is known to live in fruit bats, and normally affects people living in or near tropical rainforests. It is introduced into the human population through close contact with the sweat, blood, secretions, organs or other bodily fluids of infected animals such as fruit bats, chimpanzees, forest antelope and porcupines found ill or dead or in the rainforest.

The virus spreads among populations through humanto-human transmission, with infection resulting from direct contact, through broken skin or mucous membranes, and indirect contact with environments or objects contaminated with such fluids, such as door handles and telephones.

Q What does Ebola do?

A Symptoms begin with fever, muscle pain and a sore throat, escalating rapidly to vomiting, diarrhoea and internal and external bleeding, leading quickly to death. Health workers are at serious risk of contracting the disease and need to wear a protective suit covering their entire body.

Q Why is it spreading so rapidly in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea?

A Many of the areas that are seriously affected already suffer extreme poverty and have limited access to soap or running water to help control the spread of disease. Hospitals in these countries frequently lack basic supplies and are understaffed. Another significant problem is that burial ceremonies, in which mourners have direct contact with the body of the deceased person, can increase the spread of the disease.

Q How long does the virus survive?

A One thing in mankind's favour is that the Ebola virus is quite fragile and easily destroyed by high temperatures, being dried out and disinfectants such as soapy water and alcohol gel.

It will survive a few days at longest if left in a pool of bodily fluid, such as saliva or blood, in a cool, damp place.

Q Is the disease treatable?

A Early treatment improves a patient's chances of survival. However, there is no cure. Severely ill patients require intensive support. Patients are frequently dehydrated and require oral rehydration with solutions containing electrolytes or intravenous fluids.

There are limited supplies of experimental drugs, including ZMapp, a combination of monoclonal antibodies.

Q Is there a vaccine?

A An experimental vaccine, known as the cAd 3-ZEBOV, began Phase 1 trials on volunteers in Oxford and Bethesda last month. The vaccine is being administered to a further group of volunteers in Mali this month. If successful, the vaccine will be fast tracked for use in West Africa. A second vaccine, rVSV-ZEBOV, developed by the Public Health Agency of Canada, is ready to undergo Phase 1 trials.

Q Will Ebola reach Britain?

A So far there have been no known cases of the disease being contracted by people in this country as a result of being infected by travellers arriving here carrying the virus. However, Jeremy Hunt, the Health Secretary, conceded that there could be as many as 10 cases of Ebola in Britain by Christmas.

The Government has started screening passengers arriving at Heathrow and Gatwick airports and the Eurostar terminal at St Pancras.

Q Can Ebola be stopped?

A The United Nations says it believes the world can defeat the Ebola outbreak in West Africa in six to nine months, "but only if a 'massive' global response is implemented".

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141019eaaj00092


News
Ebola scare on cruise ship
NICK ALLEN; ROB CRILLY
1206 words
19 October 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
2; National
34
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
American passenger and husband quarantined in cabin as vessel is turned away from Mexican port after disease alert on Caribbean voyage

IT WAS supposed to be an escape to the Caribbean sunshine for a week of parties, relaxation, and sipping champagne while watching gorgeous sunsets from the decks of a luxury cruise ship.

But four days after the Carnival Magic set sail from Galveston, Texas, rumours began swirling that all was not well on board.

The ship, complete with a swimming pool, an array of water slides and a giant cinema screen, stopped inexplicably off the coast of Belize and the whispers began.

"The rumours were going round — we were stuck in the mud. Someone's been kidnapped," said one passenger.

As the theories got wilder over the clink of cocktail glasses at the bar, no one imagined they were about to be at the centre of an international Ebola scare.

Finally, the captain con-firmed on the loudspeaker that, among their number, was a woman who worked as a lab supervisor at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas. She had processed clinical samples from Thomas Eric Duncan, a Liberian man who was the first person diagnosed with Ebola in the US. The 42-year-old died on Oct 8, four days before the ship sailed.

The lab supervisor and her husband were quarantined voluntarily in their cabin as fear spread on the ship, which is due to arrive back in Galveston today.

Jon Malone, a passenger, said there was "utter panic" on board. "People are scared. I've seen people crying. You're using the same buffet line as someone else, the same waiters, the folks that clean the state rooms.

"It's really difficult to control any type of virus that's on a cruise ship. It's like a floating petri dish. It spreads very rapidly. They're cleaning elevators. I've seen people with pink liquid cleaning the bar area and the handrails."

His brother, Jeremy, said: "You see a ton of people that are crying, and then there are folks that are having a drink."

Outside his room on the 11th floor, Jeremy Malone saw up to 40 workers in masks with cleaning fluids.

As word of an Ebola scare spread, so many passengers tried to call home that their mobile signals failed, and the internet crashed.

One passenger, who gave his name as Michael, was able to get through to CNN by telephone. He said: "Obviously our concern is where is this person on the ship and what kind of set-up do they have to care for them? I can't imagine it's a completely quarantined area. My wife has medication for a kidney transplant, she's susceptible to getting something a little easier than the rest of us, and we don't know where this person has been on the ship."

The passenger first realised something was wrong when he looked on a map of the ship's course on his television. He said: "We were supposed to put into a port and I noticed that we were pulling away from the port. The captain finally came on and said we couldn't get permission to port. That's when everything hit the fan here and we realised we were quarantined."

The lab supervisor boarded the Carnival Magic, which carries 3,690 passengers and up to 1,367 crew, in Galveston, on Oct 12.

She had not been placed under any travel restrictions by the hospital or the US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention. Both have been criticised for not telling health workers who had contact with Mr Duncan to stay at home.

The woman on the ship was only required to self-monitor her temperature daily to see if she developed a fever.

After seeing news reports about two nurses who worked at the hospital — Nina Pham, 26, and Amber Vinson, 29 — being diagnosed with Ebola she decided to report herself to the captain and stay in her cabin.

The ship then applied to drop her off in Belize so she could be flown back to Texas, but the Belize government refused. Dean Barrow, the country's prime minister, refused a personal appeal from John Kerry, the US secretary of state, to send a helicopter to pick her up from the Carnival Magic and take her to a plane waiting at an airport in Belize.

Mr Barrow said: "It is clear, even in the US with all their capacity, with all their expertise, there are still a lot of unanswered questions as to how this thing gets transmitted. Their response, their approach, their treatment of the issue, seems to be a work in progress."

All the other passengers except the woman and her husband were allowed to disembark in Belize for their scheduled stop, which may raise questions of how any potential spread of the virus is being contained.

The Carnival Magic then sailed on to Mexico where it was scheduled to dock in the port of Cozumel. It was hoped the woman could be airlifted from there, but the ship was not even allowed into port.

"I'm on the Carnival ship with the Ebola scare. Mexican authorities not allowing us into Cozumel. Heading back to Galveston," Eric Lupher, a passenger who works as a reporter for ABC7, a news website, in Denver, Colorado, said on Twitter.

Mr Lupher described how fear began spreading among the passengers on Thursday night.

He said: "We were about five miles off the shore of Belize just sitting in the boat in the ocean, not knowing what was going on. The boat wasn't moving. It was like that for several hours. Then we started moving in the middle of the night.

"More than 12 hours later we were told this person was on the ship. The captain came on the loudspeaker and told us what was going on. He never said the word Ebola, but everyone knew. On the elevators, people were talking about it. And a lot of people were upset about it."

Carnival Cruise Lines distributed a letter to passengers telling them: "At this time the guest remains in isolation on board the ship and is not deemed to be a risk to any guests or crew. It is important to reiterate that the individual has no symptoms and has been isolated in an extreme abundance of caution."

The maximum incubation period for Ebola is 21 days and it has been very nearly that long since the woman handled Mr Duncan's samples, showing no symptoms, so it is likely she is out of danger.

Carnival offered compensation of $200 (£125) per passenger to those on board, and a 50 per cent discount on future cruises, as an apology for missing the Mexican stop.

A spokesman said: "We greatly regret that this situation, which was completely beyond our control, precluded the ship from making its scheduled visit to Cozumel and the resulting disappointment it has caused our guests."

The US State Department said it was working with the cruise line to "safely bring them back to the United States out of an abundance of caution".

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141019eaaj00090


These pointless plots are a sign of wider discontent
MATTHEW D'ANCONA
1261 words
19 October 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
1; National
30
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The charge sheet for Miliband and Cameron is uncannily similar: each is accused of insulating himself himself wirth a wicked cabal of courtiers and advisers

How often in modern political history have both main party leaders been threatened, simultaneously, with a coup? Harold Wilson and Ted Heath both confronted internal plots in the mid-Seventies. Even as Iain Duncan Smith faced sequestration in 2003, Tony Blair felt barely tolerable pressure to step aside for Gordon Brown.

Yet neither is a precise precedent for the symmetrical forces acting against, respectively, David Cameron and Ed Miliband. Last weekend, an unnamed Cabinet minister reportedly warned that there would be a vote of no confidence in the Tory leader if the party lost the Rochester and Strood by-election on November 20 - a contest forced by the defection to Ukip of Mark Reckless.

"If Reckless wins, there'll be 46 names," the minister said - a reference to the rule that a confidence vote is triggered if 15 per cent of Tory MPs write to Graham Brady, the chairman of the 1922 Committee. It was by this means that the party sacked Duncan Smith in 2003.

Would Cameron be defeated in such a vote? Certainly not. But the mere currency of such a notion - its slow creep from the risible periphery of debate towards the serious centre - is an embarrassment for the PM that threatens to become something much worse. So: happy days for Ed? Not a bit of it. If proof were ever needed that the battle between Labour and Conservative is not a zero-sum game, it has been amply supplied in the past fortnight.

As Cameron learnt that a confidence vote was being discussed by at least some of his colleagues, Miliband read, variously paraphrased, the words: "In the name of God, go!" Andrew Mackinlay, the former MP for Thurrock, was prompted by the near-loss of Heywood and Middleton to Ukip 10 days ago to declare his leadership a "complete disaster", to insist that Ed would never appeal to "floating voters" in marginal seats, and to plead with him to "stand aside now". David Blunkett, ever the wry diplomat, urged his party to showcase its top team rather than its leader, on the grounds that "the offer is a Labour government not a Labour presidency". Damian McBride, ever the straight-talker, wrote that "either Labour must be willing to change its leader, or its leader must be willing to change himself".

The charge sheet for Miliband and Cameron is uncannily similar: both men are said to be "out of touch" (a phrase so worn by overuse it has come to mean "does not agree with me"); each is accused of insulating himself with a wicked cabal of courtiers and political professionals; neither (along with every leader in the developed world) has found a way of reconciling voters to the thunderous forces unleashed by globalisation. In this rhetorical battle, "immigration policy" usually does service for "change" in general.

It is easily forgotten that both Cameron and Miliband were the choice of the rankand-file against the initial favourites of the political/media class. In May 2005, David Davis appeared to be a shoo-in to succeed Michael Howard, and quickly boasted the support of more than 60 Tory MPs. Yet it was Cameron who prevailed in the ballot of all Conservative members.

In 2010, likewise, David Miliband was set fair to lead Labour's political recovery, hailed by senior colleagues and media as the runaway favourite. But, in the final round, it was his younger brother who triumphed, nudged to victory by anti-Blairite trade union members.

Each movement got the leader it asked for. Cameron forged a wildly unlikely Coalition that has kept the Tories in power for four-and-a-half years, taken significant steps towards fiscal sanity, and launched transformative reforms of education and welfare. Miliband has held his party together, averted a civil war and kept Labour ahead in the polls since he took charge.

Yet neither party is now remotely content. There are proximate reasons for this, connected to by-elections, the pace of recovery, specific character traits (Cameron's occasional hauteur, Miliband's bacon sandwich crisis). But there are structural reasons, too, why parties and their leaders cannot get on.

In his recent book, The Myth of the Strong Leader: Political Leadership in the Modern Age, Archie Brown provides a useful corrective to the Führerprinzip that has dominated political culture in recent decades. But that dominance is not accidental. It reflects higher expectations of government, raised standards of accountability, and media scrutiny more intense and unrelenting than at any time in history.

When Ebola leads the news, and Isil uploads its execution of British hostages, the voters - quite rightly - demand to see, and not simply to be told, that an identifiable individual is in charge. Increasingly - and understandably - citizens behave like customers when they use the public services they pay for with their taxes. Again, there needs to be a CEO to explain what is happening. Whatever we may wish to believe to the contrary, the quasipresidentialism of our system reflects our wishes as much as the designs of politicians.

All of which leaves the political parties themselves in a difficult position. They remain necessary organisations for the acquisition and retention of power, for the united action of those of a broadly similar political disposition. But the problem they face is threefold.

First, politics is less hereditary and less tribal than it was a generation ago. Party allegiance is no longer reliably classdriven. Single-issue campaigns are better suited to this era of disaggregation. Second, the twin-fisted grip of the two main parties is self-evidently declining. The existence of the Coalition has accelerated the secession of the reactionary Right to Ukip - a secession that would probably have happened sooner or later, anyway.

Third, contemporary leaders, with varying degrees of candour, deploy parties as vehicles for their own political projects. In particular, Tony Blair sought, in his own words, to "circumvent" Labour and "construct an alliance between myself and the public" - one that did not depend upon the activists exiled "in the Siberia of party drudgery". To this day, Lord Feldman, the Tory co-chairman and close friend of the PM, denies that, last year, he described some constituency activists as "mad, swivel-eyed loons". What was damaging was that, for many, the accusation rang true.

Those Tories who believe that Boris Johnson would treat their party with reverence and respect might like to read his excellent new book on Churchill - in particular, the passages on his subject and political parties. The Mayor of London writes with evident admiration: "As he [Churchill] once said… choosing a political party is like choosing a horse: you just go for the nag that will take you farther and fastest… No one, before or since, has been so magnificently and unrepentantly disloyal."

How does the Tory movement feel about being treated like "a nag"? No better than Labour, clearly. The proper role of parties in the 21st century is one of the neglected issues facing contemporary politics: how to stop them becoming ideological fortresses, or mere networks of telesalesmen; how to repair the bond between those who lead, and those who pound the pavements. What is certain is that the present system is badly broken. Why else would a party, still heading, the polls say, for a 40-seat majority in May, be talking about replacing its leader?

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141019eaaj00065


Features
THE WEEK THAT WAS
KATE MOORE
266 words
19 October 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
1; National
32
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
FTSE PLUNGES

More than £46billion was wiped off the stock market on Wednesday amid fears over global economic growth. The FTSE 100 index fell 181 points to 6,212 - the lowest since July last year. The decline came despite news that the UK employment market has picked up, with the total number of unemployed dropping below two million for the first time in almost six years. Wage growth remained below the current inflation rate of 1.2 per cent.

WAR NOVEL WINS MAN BOOKER PRIZE

Richard Flanagan, a 53-year-old Australian author, walked away with the £50,000 Man Booker Prize on Tuesday night for the The Narrow Road to the Deep North. The novel draws heavily on his father Archie's experience as a prisoner of war on the Thai-Burma "Death Railway", where thousands of men perished from 1942-3. As part of his research Flanagan travelled to Japan, where he met surviving guards from the camp. Archie Flanagan did not get to see his son collect the prize, however: he died last year, the night after the manuscript was finished.

EBOLA SCREENING AT AIRPORTS

There was confusion at Heathrow Airport as checks for the Ebola virus came into effect for passengers arriving in Britain from, originally, Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea. Bemused travellers expressed concern about the low-key nature of the measures, with many bypassing the screening room altogether. The World Health Organisation warned that the number of Ebola cases could climb to 5,000-10,000 a week by early December.

KATE MOORE

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141019eaaj0005c


Features
UN Ebola tsar has from
CHRISTOPHER BOOKER
162 words
19 October 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
1; National
32
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Ebola, filling the news like an ongoing horror film, is clearly a ghastly disease. But we should not perhaps take too much cheer from the fact that the UN's top man on Ebola, supposedly in charge of coordinating international efforts to stop this deadly virus stalking across the globe, is a British doctor, David Nabarro.

He was last this big in the news in September 2005, when he was drafted in from the World Health Organisation to play a similar role as the UN's top man on Asian bird flu.

Dr Nabarro immediately predicted that that virus could kill "150 million people", telling the BBC that it was "like a combination of global warming and HIV/Aids". Despite the WHO stating that this was not its "official view", he stood by his claim.

Nine years later, the WHO's figure for the total number of deaths from Asian bird flu is 379.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141019eaaj00058


Business
US market rout won't derail its return to power
Katherine Rushton
706 words
19 October 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
1; National
5
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Country is in far stronger position to weather losses, Barclays director tells Katherine Rushton

If ever America needed one, the last fortnight have been a reminder that the largest economy in the world does not exist in isolation.

US markets had grown solidly throughout 2014, but when October arrived they got a pummelling. America's blue-chip S&P 500 index erased its gains for the year, as concerns over weakening growth in Europe and Asia reached a tipping point. The Dow Jones Industrial Average came close to doing the same, dropping more than 400 points, or 3pc, in a day.

Michael Gapen, managing director of US economic research at Barclays, thinks the rout is almost entirely driven by factors outside America. "It is led by worries in both the US and Asia - it is strictly a non-US global story. The data out of Europe has been disappointing, and the data out of Japan and China looks shaky," he says. The impact of Ebola has layered on another concern.

But Gapen is reasonably confident that US markets will settle over the next couple of months, as America weighs the prospect of a global slowdown against the immediate positive effect some of these losses may have on the US.

"From the point of view of the US, some of these shocks could help boost growth," he explains. "A sharp decline in oil prices means a sharp decline in retail gasoline prices - it translates into an energy price windfall - and that is something that supports consumption in the US.

"The US is on a much better footing now than when [previous routs] happened in 2011 and 2012."

The US economy got off to an icy start in 2014, as a bitter winter bit into spending, but when the thaw set in, green shoots that started showing through the year before finally started to flourish.

America's GDP grew at the equivalent of 4.6pc a year in the second quarter - its fastest rate in two-and-a-half years - as exports rose, consumer spending increased, and firms gained enough confidence to invest in inventory. It is thought to have maintained most of this momentum in the third quarter, growing at the annualised equivalent of about 3.3pc.

Stock markets have also responded to a steady drip of evidence that the US jobs market is improving, and strong company earnings as the banking sector regained its swagger and many of the new technology companies that had been promising riches started to deliver.

America's relative economic health has already heralded a shift in the global balance of power, which is likely to become more pronounced, said analysts at IHS Global Insight. They said that over the past two years "the US economy has, once again, become a locomotive of global growth".

The Federal Reserve has already raised concerns that the strengthening dollar will make US exports less attractive to the rest of the world, and bring a flood of imports, made more appealing by the favourable exchange rate. This would drag on America's GDP and could make it hard for the central bank to keep inflation close to its 2pc target.

The concern is not a major one. IHS noted that America has "the least exposure to foreign demand", so "unless things go very badly in the rest of the world, the positive internal dynamics of the US economy will likely cushion it from weakness elsewhere".

The Fed also has levers to pull if it needs to. It is due to end its long-running asset purchase programme this month, weaning the economy off the so-called "quantitative easing" it has used to prop up growth over the last few years.

But Jim Bullard, one of the members of the Federal Open Mart Committee, said on Thursday that the central bank would consider a new round of asset purchases if data suggested the US economy was flagging excessively, or the global economic situation weakened dramatically.

His comments soothed US markets on Friday, although analysts were sceptical that further QE is on the horizon.

'The US has again become a locomotive of global growth'

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141019eaaj0001n


Business
It is all swings and roundabouts, so keep holding steady
TOM STEVENSON
783 words
19 October 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
1; National
4
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The last week's market gyrations have been a reminder that shortterm volatility is the price investors pay for long-term outperformance. After a period of unusually smooth returns, normal service has resumed.

Different reasons have been proposed for the correction since the cyclical peak in early September. Slowing growth, geopolitics, Ebola and the end of quantitative easing have all contributed. A more likely explanation is that the relative calm that followed the European Central Bank president Mario Draghi's "whatever it takes" reassurance in 2012 had simply gone on too long. Sometimes markets need to let off a bit of steam.

Growth fears look overdone to me. The US, in particular, is recovering strongly, leading to improving trade and budget accounts and a resurgent dollar. Markets needn't be fazed by the end of monetary stimulus, because it is happening for the right reasons. Ebola and the Middle East are unknowable, but markets have taken worse uncertainty in their stride over the years.

On the growth scare, it should be remembered that the dramatic fall in the oil price since June acts as an effective tax cut for consumers. US drivers who spend around $3,000 (£1,867) a year on petrol have $600 more in their pockets as a consequence of the fall in crude. With the Saudis looking to neuter the threat from US shale oil production, a much higher price looks unlikely in the short term. Meanwhile, central bankers on both sides of the Atlantic are making soothing noises. Rates won't rise if investors remain skittish.

The fall in equity markets should be viewed in context. A decline of around 10pc over a few weeks is in line with the 11pc median peak to trough decline for every year since 1970, according to Citi. In other words, there have been as many years in which shares have experienced sharper falls as there have been years with smaller declines. This is a totally normal pull-back.

We also trawled through the data for the US market since 1950 and confirmed this sanguine view. We found that the S&P 500 had fallen by more than 13pc in a three month period on 24 occasions. In 15 of those cases, it went on to record a gain of more than 20pc during the following year.

Over the past 10 years or so, the stock market has broadly anticipated the future direction of company earnings. The collapse in share prices in 2007/8, for example, was pretty much bang in line with the subsequent fall in profits, and the rise in share prices since 2009 mirrored their recovery, even if it took a while for investors to convince themselves the improvement was for real.

Following the autumn slide, however, shares are now pricing in stagnant profits again. That looks too gloomy. Citi's forecast is for global earnings to rise by 10pc this year and by 8pc in 2015. Another sign that equity markets are expecting an earnings slowdown is the fact that the yield on shares exceeds the income from Government bonds in all major markets. Again that looks too pessimistic.

Two interesting points emerge from an analysis of the markets in recent weeks. The first is that, unlike the "taper tantrum" of May 2013, prices have not fallen across the board. As investors have sought sanctuary from the equity market, they have moved into the perceived safe havens of German, Japanese and US government bonds and the dollar. Last year, they hid in cash. That means that anyone with a welldiversified portfolio has won on the swings even as they have lost on the roundabouts.

A related point is the dispersion in returns between different geographical markets since early September. Hardest hit have been Europe (on growth fears), countries with vulnerable current account deficits (thanks to the rising dollar) and the UK (because of our weighting to sliding commodity prices). India and Japan have held up better. Again, a well-diversified portfolio would have eased the pain.

I continue to believe that we are in a bull market. Five years after markets bottomed out in 2009, the rally is clearly ageing but it is not done yet. The best analogy is not the last bull market between 2003 and 2007, which was led by emerging markets and commodity producers but the previous one in the 1990s. The mature phase of that USled rally was marked by volatility but also by strong gains. Stick with it.

Tom Stevenson is investment director at Fidelity Worldwide Investment. The views expressed are his own.

He tweets at @tomstevenson63

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141019eaaj0001j


NEWS
Carnival Magic returns to Texas after Belize and Mexico refuse to allow possible Ebola victim to disembark
By Harriet Alexander
637 words
18 October 2014
11:52 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A cruise ship carrying a passenger who has voluntarily isolated herself over fears of Ebola infection is returning to port in the Texan city of Galveston, after Belize and Mexico refused to allow the passenger to disembark

A Texas-based cruise ship is returning to port after unsuccessfully trying to airlift a woman back to the US, after she isolated herself over fears she could have Ebola [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] .

The woman worked in the Dallas hospital where Thomas Eric Duncan – the first man to die of Ebola on American soil – was treated. She worked in a laboratory as a supervisor and did not come into contact with Duncan, who died on October 8.

But on October 12 she boarded a week-long Caribbean cruise, operated by Carnival Cruises. When the American Centre for Disease Control and Protection updated their requirement for monitoring of anyone who had been in contact with the virus, on October 15, she decided to lock herself in her room with her husband.

She is said to be perfectly healthy, and to have had no symptoms of the disease 20 days after she dealt with the sample – and people are considered out of danger 21 days after possible contact.

Yet the woman's actions forced the crew of the Carnival Magic to request that she be airlifted from Belize back to the US.

The government of Belize refused, saying: "The passenger never set foot in Belize. When even the smallest doubt remains, we will ensure the health and safety of the Belizean people." All passengers except the woman and her husband were allowed to disembark on Thursday.

The ship then sailed on to Mexico, but authorities in the port of Cozumel also refused to allow her to reach the waiting airlift – and the vessel was not allowed into port.

Having arrived in Cozumel on Friday morning, the captain took the decision to sail onwards – because Mexico had not decided by midday whether to allow the passengers to disembark.

"I'm on the Carnival ship with the Ebola scare. Mexican authorities not allowing us into Cozumel. Heading back to Galveston," tweeted Eric Lupher, a journalist, who was on board.

Another passenger, tweeting as @delaneymack_, joked about Carnival Magic being immobile, "stuck in mud," and wrote: "At least I have chocolate cake and Dr Pepper ..."

Twitter: d e l a n e y - nice knowing y'all. #carnivalmagicstuckinmud [https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23carnivalmagicstuckinmud]: d e l a n e y - nice knowing y'all.

"We greatly regret that this situation, which was completely beyond our control, precluded the ship from making its scheduled visit to Cozumel and the resulting disappointment it has caused our guests," read a statement from Carnival.

The cruise company have offered compensation of $200 per person and a 50 per cent discount on future cruises, as an apology for missing the Mexican stop.

Carnival Cruises said in a statement [http://carnival-news.com/2014/10/17/carnival-magic-statement-october-17-2014/] : "At no point in time has the individual exhibited any symptoms or signs of infection. She is deemed by CDC to be very low risk.

"At this time, the guest remains in isolation on board the ship and is not deemed to be a risk to any guests or crew. It is important to reiterate that the individual has no symptoms and has been isolated in an extreme abundance of caution."

None of Carnival Cruise Lines' ships visit the region where Ebola cases are originating. Any passengers or crew who have visited or travelled through Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea within 21 days of a cruise departure date will be denied boarding, the company said, and all guests are made to answer a series of health screening questions during embarkation.

The ship will return to Galveston on Sunday.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141018eaai002jp


NEWS
Africa's 'political and social fabric' at risk because of Ebola, says David Cameron
By Georgia Graham Political Correspondent in Milan, Italy
805 words
18 October 2014
02:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The Prime Minister has written to Herman Van Rompuy, the president of the European Council, and the 27 leaders in the European council to urge them to 'significantly step up our collective response' to the crisis

David Cameron has demanded that European leaders "step up" and dramatically increase they have spent in the fight against Ebola, warning that "the political, economic and social fabric" of parts of Africa was at risk.

The Prime Minister described the disease as the "biggest health problem facing our world in a generation" as he challenged his fellow leaders to provide €1 billion - or £796million - to defeat the disease.

It is thought European countries together have donated less than half this amount so far. Mr Cameron said Britain was currently leading the fight as he suggested some countries were not yet pulling their weight in terms of donations and resources.

He said: "If we do not significantly step up our collective response now, the loss of life and damage to the political, economic and social fabric of the region will be substantial and the threat posed to our citizens will also grow."

Britain has so far spent £125million so far tackling the crisis far more than most other European countries.

Mr Cameron last night wrote to Herman Van Rompuy, the president of the European Council, and the 27 leaders in the European council to urge them to "significantly step up our collective response" to the crisis.

More money and support will not only help people in immediate danger in West Africa and protect European citizens from the speeding of the deadly disease, he told them.

Mr Cameron said that together European countries must provide £796 million and bring at least 2,000 health workers to the region by the middle of next month.

These workers should include at least 1,000 clinical staff, Mr Cameron said.

The Prime Minister also said that European counties needed to coordinate how they are screening people entering Europe from countries battling the outbreak.

It came as Mr Cameron used the Asia Europe Meeting in Milan, Italy to put pressure on European leaders to up their response to the crisis.

Arriving at the summit The Prime Minister said: "This is the biggest health problem facing our world in a generation. It is very likely to affect a number of the countries here today."

The Prime Minister insisted the Britain was "leading the way" in providing assistance to the region as he backed a call by United Nations secretary-general Ban Ki-moon for other countries to deliver more in the way of funding and resources.

"Britain, in my view, has been leading the way.

He added: "The action we are taking in Sierra Leone where we are committing well over £100 million, 750 troops, training 800 members of health staff, providing 700 beds - we are doing a huge amount.

"I think it is time for other countries to look at their responsibilities and their resources and act in a similar way to what Britain is doing in Sierra Leone, America is doing in Liberia, France is doing in Guinea.

"Other countries now need to step forward with resources and action because taking action at source in West Africa is the best way to protect all of us here in Europe.".

In his letter to President Van Rompuy, andfellow European leaders the Prime Minister has warned that "we need to act fast to contain and defeat this deadly virus".

Mr Cameron also wants to organise weekly flights from Europe to Sierra Leone, Guinea and Liberia for frontline staff and a guarantee for all health workers that they will revive first class western medical treatment if they become infected with the virus.

This week Kofi Annan, the former UN Secretary General, said he was "bitterly disappointed" at the scale and speed of the international community's response to the crisis and said western countries "only really woke up" when the virus spread to Europe and America.

He said: "I point the finger of blame at the governments with capacity ... I think there's enough blame to go around."

A team of British Army medics arrived in Sierra Leone yesterday to work at a UK-supported treatment centre, which has 12 of its 92 beds set aside for healthcare workers who risk infection while treating others.

The Royal Navy medical ship RFA Argus, which has a fully-equipped 100-bed hospital on board, is setting sail from Cornwall to join the humanitarian effort and is due to reach the area by the end of the month but will be reserved for UK military who fall ill or are injured while working in the affected countries.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141018eaai000gr


Ed Miliband and Baroness Worthington, the most expensive man and woman in Britain’s history
By Christopher Booker
1406 words
18 October 2014
03:15 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The Climate Change Act could cost the UK £1.3 trillion over the next 36 years

Who are potentially the most expensive man and woman in Britain, due over the next 36 years to cost this country £1.3 trillion, equivalent to our entire, ever-swelling National Debt?

The man is Ed Miliband, who in 2008 pushed through the final version of the Climate Change Act. It made us the only country in the world legally committed between now and 2050 to cutting our emissions of CO2 by a staggering 80 per cent. Even then, the Government projected that this would cost us up to £734 billion. The latest figures from the EU and the International Energy Agency suggest that, for Britain to reach this target, it would now cost even more: £1,300 billion.

Less well known, however, is the extraordinary story of how this most expensive Act ever put on the statute book originated in the first place. Google “Bryony Worthington YouTube” and you will see the video of a young climate activist, now known as Baroness Worthington, describing how she first conceived the idea of such a policy when she was campaigns director on climate change for Friends of the Earth.

After David Cameron became Tory leader in 2005, bent on “remaking” his party, she put to him that he should adopt her proposal. She describes how, when David Miliband became environment secretary, desperate not to be “out-greened” by the Tories, he called on her to head a small team in his ministry tasked with urgently drafting such a Bill. When, in 2008, brother Ed took over as head of the new Department of Energy and Climate Change (Decc), he raised the emissions-cut target from 60 to 80 per cent, at almost double the cost.

The Bill passed the Commons by 463 votes to three, after a debate in which not a single MP asked how such an ambitious target could in practice be achieved without destroying virtually our entire economy.

But this is what at last one senior politician, Owen Paterson, dared to question in his lecture last week to the Global Warming Policy Foundation. Thanks to advance coverage given to his speech in last week’s Sunday Telegraph, with its front-page headline “Let’s rip up the Climate Change Act”, Mr Paterson has at last set off a proper debate on our energy future – one that is years overdue.

As I wrote last week, Paterson was able, backed by a mountain of expert research, to show how Decc’s current policy, outlined in its “2050 Pathway Analysis” –and amplified by similar statements from the European Commission – is pure make-believe. It alone might merit front-page headlines: that, within 16 years, Decc seriously contemplates closing down all our existing energy supplies from the nasty, CO2-emitting fossil fuels that currently supply 70 per cent of our electricity. Out will go all cooking and central heating by gas. Almost everything, including our transport system, will have to be powered by electricity, for which we will, by 2050, need twice as much as we currently use. This will largely be supplied by 17 times as many wind turbines as we already have, and up to 12 more monster nuclear power plants like the one proposed in Somerset, which may not produce a watt of electricity within 10 years.

What has been striking about the outraged response from green zealots to Paterson’s speech is how they did not begin to understand his practical proposals for how an otherwise inevitable disaster can be averted.

There was, of course, a knee-jerk howl of derision from the likes of Lord Stern and Lord Deben, along with a blizzard of personal abuse across the Twittersphere. But the more thoughtful among them, such as the BBC’s Roger Harrabin, tried instead to ride with the punch, by claiming that Decc was already looking at all the parts of Paterson’s “Plan B” for keeping our lights on. So there was really nothing new about what he was saying, despite his devastating evidence showing how Decc’s current strategy, like the Climate Change Act itself, cannot possibly work.

The zealots simply cannot grasp how our energy future might be transformed by “combined heat and power”, ending the waste of almost half the energy we use to create electricity. Or how hundreds of small, wholly safe nuclear reactors could provide us with a huge new source of both electricity and heat within a decade or so. Or how sophisticated “demand management” technology could shave another huge chunk off our electricity needs, without us even noticing.

And all this could achieve a far greater cut in our carbon emissions (for what that is worth) than we can hope for under Decc’s unworkable policy.

When Mr Paterson’s radical proposals are properly examined, unblinkered by green make-believe, it will be seen that he has at last launched the properly informed national debate that alone might save our economy from a barely imaginable catastrophe.

---------------------

How Red Ed boobed over the disabled

Yet another instance of Ed Miliband’s legendary political acumen was his attempt at last week’s PMQs to rebrand the Tories as “the nasty party”. This was on the basis of leaked comments by Lord Freud on the unfortunate effect of the minimum wage on the disabled. A transcript of what the junior welfare minister actually said at a private Tory meeting showed it to be the very opposite of what Miliband tried to convey.

In fact, he was addressing precisely a point I made here in June 1999, after being approached by a local councillor who had worked with the disabled for years. He alerted me to the social disaster that the Labour government’s new minimum wage was about to create.

It was going to prevent thousands of people with learning or physical disabilities from doing modest jobs – such as clearing litter, assembling wooden toys or stacking supermarket shelves. This work took them out into the community with a sense that they were doing something useful, but it didn’t necessarily justify their being paid the new minimum wage. So what many charity workers and social services managers proposed was that the handicapped should continue doing such therapeutic work, but for wages below the new minimum, with the difference made up by a modest change to the benefit rules.

The then government’s insistence on everyone getting the full minimum wage made nonsense of its claim that it would help the disabled, but it remained impervious to objections. I quoted the fine Orwellian twist of a reply to a Labour MP from the trade minister Ian McCartney, loftily explaining that the minimum wage “supports a culture of social inclusion”. In other words, as I wrote, to promote the “inclusion” of the handicapped, they must be socially excluded.

Sure enough, this was just what happened. In 2000 The Guardian was quoting Mencap in reporting that large numbers of handicapped people had been laid off, and were now forced to while away their time in day centres or languish unhappily at home.

This was precisely the anomaly Lord Freud was again trying to address, in those remarks for which David Cameron ordered him to apologise, on the grounds that they were “foolish and offensive”. How epolitics become.

---------------------

UN Ebola tsar has form

Ebola, filling the news like an ongoing horror film, is clearly a ghastly disease. But we should not perhaps take too much cheer from the fact that the UN’s top man on Ebola, supposedly in charge of co-ordinating international efforts to stop this deadly virus stalking across the globe, is a British doctor, David Nabarro.

He was last this big in the news in September 2005, when he was drafted in from the World Health Organisation to play a similar role as the UN’s top man on Asian bird flu.

Dr Nabarro immediately predicted that that virus could kill “150 million people”, telling the BBC that it was “like a combination of global warming and HIV/Aids”. Despite the WHO stating that this was not its “official view”, he stood by his claim.

Nine years later, the WHO’s figure for the total number of deaths from Asian bird flu is 379.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141018eaai00439


NEWS
France introduces Ebola screening at airport
By David Chazan Paris
549 words
18 October 2014
01:29 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
French authorities start checking the body temperatures of passengers arriving from Guinea as Air France staff demand the suspension of flights to the west African nation hit by the Ebola epidemic

French officials began screening air passengers arriving from Guinea for symptoms of Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] on Saturday, as concern rose that the epidemic could spread to France.

At Roissy Airport outside Paris, officials used laser thermometers to check the body temperatures of about 200 passengers arriving from Guinea[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/guinea/] without touching them.

A Belgian woman suspected of having caught the virus was sent to a Paris hospital, officials said. The woman, aged about 40, had a temperature higher than 38 degrees Celsius as she disembarked from the flight from Guinea. Tests are being carried out and she is being kept in isolation.

An hour after disembarking, the woman's temperature fell to 37.5 degrees, a source close to the medical team said. "She had no vomiting or diarrhoea," the source said.

A health ministry spokesman declined to comment, saying the "population will be informed immediately if a case of Ebola is confirmed in France".

Air France unions called for services between Paris and the Guinean capital Conakry to be suspended until the epidemic is brought under control.

The daily flights "carry a serious risk of spreading the epidemic, particularly in our country," according to a joint statement by two unions representing flight attendants and other staff.

The unions said other airlines including British Airways and Emirates had suspended flights to Guinea, where the epidemic originated. Ebola has claimed more than 4,500 lives, more than 860 of them in Guinea.

Air France suspended flights to Sierra Leone at the end of August after staff voiced similar concerns. Flight crews have complained about "inadequate" protection from Air France, which has provided them "simply with a pair of gloves". Unions have written to the transport minister, Alain Vidalies, demanding "more appropriate measures."

Souhaib Bangoura, 35, returning from a business trip to Guinea, said the passengers' temperatures were taken as they disembarked from the Air France flight.

"We were in single file on the gangway and doctors were checking our temperatures remotely," Mr Bangoura said. "We were pleasantly surprised. It went very quickly."

The French health minister, Marisol Touraine, said the temperature checks were "an additional safety measure".

She added: "There is no miracle solution. We have to increase preventive procedures."

The government announced new moves to prevent the spread of the virus on Friday after a French nurse who cared for an Ebola patient last month was admitted to hospital. Officials said the results of initial tests were negative.

The prime minister's office said France had "no confirmed cases" of Ebola.

The French authorities are only screening passengers arriving from Guinea. Those from other countries affected by the epidemic or those who have changed flights en route are not being monitored.

The efficiency of such screening procedures has been questioned by experts and the World Health Organisation has warned of the dangers of a "false sense of security".

One passenger, Sow Souleymane, said he had undergone four health checks before boarding the plane in Guinea. "People are more scared of Ebola in France than they are in Guinea," he said.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141018eaai0040h


NEWS
Thousands of children orphaned by Ebola outbreak
By Patrick Sawer
802 words
18 October 2014
12:49 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Children of many victims across Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea left destitute and alone

Thousands of children across West Africa have been left orphaned by the Ebola outbreak, with friends and neighbours too fearful of the disease to take them into their homes.

As the outbreak sweeps across Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, the children of many of the virus’s victims have been left destitute and alone.

Such is the fear of infection in the country’s small towns and villages that neighbours are shunning the surviving children of the dead, ignoring the long established African tradition of taking orphan children into your home.

Now charity workers are warning it will take months of care and counselling to rebuild the children’s shattered lives and persuade communities to accept them again.

According to teachers and social workers on the ground, the death rate of the current outbreak is being matched by the number of orphans left by the disease, with around 5,000 children robbed of their parents since the outbreak began.

With the number of Ebola cases predicted to climb to 10,000 a week by the World Health Organisation – and with death rates of 70 per cent – growing numbers of children face even harsher prospects than usual in what are already desperately poor countries.

Tom Dannatt, of the charity Street Child, said: “These children are generally from the poorest families and after the death of their parents they are left with literally nothing. Their family has been wiped out and their homes and possessions have been burnt because of the fear of infection. On top of that there is a stigma against them. People don’t want to take them into their homes for fear of contracting the disease.”

Street Child workers are working to persuade communities that children who have lost parents to Ebola are not necessarily contagious themselves and would be safe to take into their homes after a 21 day quarantine period.

In just one example of the fear created by the Ebola outbreak a street child faced violent hostility from relatives after they feared he would infect them.

The 17-year-old Liberian boy was shot by a stray bullet in August after protesters attempted to break the military-enforced quarantine of Monrovia’s Westpoint, the capital’s largest slum.

On returning home, the boy, called Titus, was turned away by his family for fear that his injuries may be related to Ebola and put them at risk – the same family with whom Street Child had only recently reunited Titus after years struggling to survive on the streets.

Titus managed to receive the medical attention he needed and, after being found by one of Street Child’s social workers, is being looked after until it is safe to return home with their support.

Mr Dannatt said friends and neighbours can be persuaded, with patient efforts by social workers and community leaders, to revert to the tradition of taking in a village’s orphans.

“There’s a culture in West Africa of taking in the children of people who have died and with good education and social work we can go back to that. We can persuade people that these children do not pose a risk after 21 days isolation, but it takes a lot of patient work” he said. “We are having some success and some families are starting to take in these children.”

None of the children helped by the charity have so far contracted Ebola themselves, but he warned that the scale of the problem was “simply vast”, adding: “On current WHO predictions of the spread of the disease we could start to see 1,000 people a day dying and that means roughly 1,000 children a day being orphaned.”

Street Child has been working in Sierra Leone and Liberia for the past six years and now has 600 teachers in the region helping educate and train around 20,000 children across 150 schools and day centres

But since the Ebola outbreak began last summer it has been forced to suspend its normal operations to concentrate on helping the growing number of orphaned and destitute children.

Street Child is appealing to people in Britain to help its efforts to care for the stricken region’s Ebola orphans with donations or even sponsorship of a child. “Ebola is a big scary disease and its easy to despair, but readers of The Telegraph can help,” said Mr Dannatt, who set up the charity in 2008 to help the thousands of children living on the streets in countries such as Liberia and Sierra Leone.

Information on how individuals can help Street Child can be found on its website at www.street-child.co.uk[http://www.street-child.co.uk] .

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141018eaai003pd


Features
Blog of the week
745 words
18 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
18
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The FTSE 100sell–off and interesting parallels with the late Nineties

October 15: Posted by Tom Stevenson

Comment on this at telegraph.co.uk/investing

After two years of eerie calm, markets have come over all 2008 again.

The promise from Mario Draghi, the head of the European Central Bank, to do "whatever it takes" in June 2012 ushered in a Mogadon market in which prices drifted serenely higher. This month investors woke from their happy stupor.

Market gyrations like these are unsettling and it is far easier to recommend deep breaths and detachment than to actually stay calm. Steep falls in equity markets and, perhaps more alarming, big swings in the usually ponderous government bond market suggest hidden stresses.

Some context is helpful. Markets on both side of the Atlantic are down by around 10pc from their highs last month. That kind of correction hurts, but it is not unusual. Since 1950 the S&P 500, the most representative US index, has fallen by 13pc or more in a three–month period on 24 occasions. In 15 of these, the market rebounded by more than 20pc over the following year.

Yes, all is not well in the global economy or markets. The oil price has slumped by a quarter since June. A widely watched index of market volatility, the Vix index, also known as Wall Street's Fear Gauge, has spiked higher. The bond market, which so often acts as a canary in the coal mine, had a worrying wobble in the summer, presaging trouble ahead.

Investors are worried on four fronts. They sense a reversal of the economic recovery in America, a slide to recession and deflation in Europe, and the end of the China growth miracle. Politically, the world is more unstable than ever. Ebola has shown that a deadly virus is only a short flight away. Most importantly, the investor's perennial friend over the past five years, money printing, comes to an end this month. gains but increased volatility.

I believe we remain in a bull market, led by the US. Markets are not unduly expensive and sentiment is poor. We have not reached the end–game where credulous investors are sucked into the market on a wave of excessive optimism.

You said

Good article. Could have just said the absurdity of excessive valuations in IPOs especially in the new mobile/internet technology sectors mirror almost exactly the dotcom boom–bust.

simplestu on October 16

Mr Stevenson has no more idea what markets will do than my stuffed cat. The doom sayers will have a ball for a couple of days, then once again have to eat crow when the profit taking is over and investors rebuy the stock they sold a few days ago and made a tidy profit on.

bobbyjohn on October 16

The collapse in Baltic dry exchange rates, iron ore prices, and Brent all point in the same direction. This is just the beginning.

Alastair Kendall on October 15

The stock market goes up and down like a fiddler's elbow, but if you're invested for the long term (which is the only sensible strategy) the best thing to do is avoid crystallising a loss by panic selling – just go and do something you enjoy and leave it all to recover in due course, as it inevitably will. There's no point in going off to hug your knees in a darkened room, and there's definitely no mileage in listening to the doom–mongers.

dreadnort on October 16

"Politically, the world is more unstable than ever". Really? You must be living on another planet from the rest of us. Have you never heard of the two world wars or the Cold War? The current events in the Middle East are a trivial sideshow made dramatic by the exploitation of the brutal murder of a handful of hostages.

If Syria and Iraq did not exist the world would carry on without a blip. They are of no geopolitical significance whatsoever. Similarly, protesting students in Hong Kong are of no more geopolitical significance than the Paris student demos of 1968. The students will lose and China will prevail. No serious commentator doubts that inevitable outcome. The hostilities in Ukraine's eastern regions are now off the front pages of the newspapers. Putin will continue to preen and posture while his nation collapses demographically and economically.

George Dutton on October 16

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141018eaai000ib


Features
Something for the Weekend
547 words
18 October 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
24
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Turn on, tune in and pop out with our customised, vulcanised and fully optimised crib sheet of events, trends and more

What's on

Steamed up

National Festival of Railway Modelling: October 18 and 19, East of England Showground, Peterborough PE2 6XE. Adults £10, children £4.50, family £29.

No fewer than 30 fascinating model railway layouts up and running, tended by the individuals and societies who created them, and a massive range of specialist suppliers and experts on hand to advise hobbyists on techniqsues and new products.

model–railways–live.co.uk

Pipped at the post

Cromford Apple Day October 18, Scarthin Promenade, Cromford, Derbyshire DE4 3QF, noon–5pm

Local people can bring their apples and pears for pressing into juice and (eventually) cider. There will be a longest–peel competition plus morris men, music and children's activities.

scarthinbooks.com

Fall guys

Autumn Watch, Batsford Arboretum, Bourton–on–the–Hill, nr Moreton–in–Marsh, Glos GL56 9AD. Adults £7, children £3, family £17.

A spectacular display of autumn colours among the foliage at this popular Cotswold arboretum. Terrace café, gift and plant store.

batsarb.co.uk

Hue'll be lucky

Fountains by Floodlight, Oct 18, Oct 25, Nov 1, Fountains Abbey, Fountains, Ripon, North Yorkshire HG4 3DY. Adults £5.25, children £2.63, family £13.13.

See the romantically ruined abbey bathed in golden hues, grab something hot and scrummy to eat and settle down to a live choral performance in the cellarium.

nationaltrust.org.uk/ fountains–abbey

What's trending

Tinned potatoes

Forget everything you think you know about tinned potatoes: according to those who follow these things on Mumsnet, it's time to put your prejudices aside and tuck in. Following a thread on which posters swapped money–saving tips from the supermarkets, tinned potatoes came out as unlikely dinner–plate heroes. And while the recommendations were met with predictable horror in some quarters ("waxy, tasteless, heavy balls of nothing!") the consensus was that they have many uses. They are, for instance, great in curries, brilliant in frittatas and delicious in hashes or "sliced up and fried with onions and bacon". Not to mention the fact that they make a useful store–cupboard item in the light of an impending Ebola crisis. And all for the bargain price of as little as 15p a tin. What's not to like?

mumsnet.com

We're loving...

Bubba Gump Shrimp Co

The Forrest Gump–themed American restaurant begins its plans for (modest) world domination by opening its first UK branch in the Trocadero, adjacent to Piccadilly Circus at the heart of London's West End. If for some reason this fails to sate your taste for US treats, M&M's World is just around the corner.

bubbagump.com

We're drinking

Darjeeling Gimlet

The gimlet has a nice Chandleresque feel. This one is made fragrant with a dash of tea. Shake 50ml good gin (we used Burleigh's), 25ml Darjeeling tea, 20ml lime juice and a scant teaspoon of white sugar vigorously with lots of ice; pour into a martini or similar glass (chilled beforehand, ideally) and serve. Garnish with lime peel if you're feeling fancy.

See more soigné cocktail recipes online at telegraph.co.uk/food

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141018eaai000hf


© 2015 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.	
 