
Factiva
Dow Jones
NEWS
Ebola in UK: Second patient tested in Scotland
By Danny Boyle and agency
589 words
30 December 2014
05:04 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
First Minister Nicola Sturgeon says new possible case is another healthcare worker who had recently returned from Ebola-hit region

A second patient is being tested for Ebola in Scotland after returning from West Africa, following the first confirmed case of the virus in the UK.

First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said the new possible case involves another healthcare worker who had recently returned from the region.

It is understood they had been staying at a youth hostel in the Highlands and was being transferred to Aberdeen Royal Infirmary.

However, Ms Sturgeon described the case as "low risk", they had "no known contact" with the virus and was not connected to the first confirmed case.

It comes as another potential Ebola patient, who had also recently returned from a country affected by an outbreak of the virus, is tested in isolation at the Royal Cornwall Hospital[http://preview.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/scotland/11316994/Ebola-patient-transferred-to-Londons-Royal-Free-Hospital.html], near Truro.

The first person to be diagnosed with Ebola[http://http.proxy.bc.edu//www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] on UK soil was moved to specialist facilities in London[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/scotland/11316994/Ebola-patient-transferred-to-Londons-Royal-Free-Hospital.html] on Tuesday morning.

The patient, who has not yet been named, was transferred from Glasgow Airport on a military-style plane in a quarantine tent surrounded by a group of health workers in full protection suits, bound for the Royal Free Hospital in north London.

She had been working in Sierra Leone with Save the Children and was admitted to hospital early on Monday[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/scotland/11316757/Ebola-case-confirmed-in-Glasgow.html] after feeling feverish and was placed into isolation.

It is understood the second Scottish patient who is being tested had been staying at a youth hostel in the Highlands and was being transferred to Aberdeen Royal Infirmary.

Ms Sturgeon told BBC Scotland: "I should stress that, although this is another returning healthcare worker from West Africa, the patient here, as far as we are aware, has had no direct contact with people infected with Ebola, so it is a case that is being described as low probability.

"But we are operating, given the seriousness of Ebola, on a highly precautionary basis and that's why this patient over the course of today will be transferred for tests."

In a joint statement, the Cornish hospital and Public Health England said: "A patient has been admitted to Royal Cornwall Hospital and is currently undergoing a series of tests - one of which is for Ebola.

"We do not expect the results to be known for at least 24 hours and in the meantime the patient is being looked after in isolation, following nationally-agreed guidelines and protocols to protect the health of our staff and other patients.

"Royal Cornwall Hospitals NHS Trust has been following national guidance around Ebola and made plans in line with advice from Public Health England and NHS England."

Around 100 have been tested for Ebola in hospitals across England this year so far.

The NHS worker is the second Briton to test positive and first to do so on UK soil.

Nurse William Pooley, 29, contracted Ebola while volunteering in Sierra Leone[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11172432/British-Ebola-survivor-Will-Pooley-returns-to-Sierra-Leone.html] in August before getting the all-clear following treatment at the Royal Free Hospital in London.

He returned to Sierra Leone last month to continue treating patients in an Ebola isolation unit run by UK medical staff.

Most of the people tested for Ebola had visited west Africa.

Health officials are tracing the 71 people who were on the British Airways flight from London to Glasgow with the woman who has the virus and passengers on the flight from Casablanca to Heathrow.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141230eacu001gu


NEWS
London's Royal Free Hospital: Why it is the UK's frontline defence against Ebola
By Agency
348 words
30 December 2014
04:48 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Dedicated department to treat dangerous infections restricted only to small number of specially trained healthcare workers

The high-level isolation unit at London's Royal Free Hospital forms the UK's main weapon in the fight to contain and treat Ebola infections.

A dedicated department designed to treat dangerous infections, it is run by doctors, nurses and laboratory staff and is restricted only to a small number of specially trained healthcare workers.

It has already proved successful after British nurse William Pooley, 29, who contracted the virus while working in Sierra Leone, was given the all-clear in September following treatment at the hospital[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11166572/British-Ebola-survivor-returning-to-West-Africa-to-help-fight-virus.html] .

The Royal Free London NHS Trust describes treatment at the unit.

It says: "A specially-designed tent, with controlled ventilation, is set up around the patient's bed and allows the staff to provide clinical care while containing the infection".

"There are various facilities in place, including a specific entrance for the patient, sterilisers which de-contaminate waste and a dedicated laboratory for carrying out tests, all of which help to ensure the patient can be treated safely and securely."

Mr Pooley, who has since returned to Sierra Leone, spoke of the "world-class care" he received upon leaving the hospital.

He said: "I was very lucky in several ways, firstly in the standard of care that I received, which is a world apart from what people are receiving in west Africa, despite various organisations' best efforts.

"I had amazing care, which was one difference."

The first person to be diagnosed with Ebola[http://http.proxy.bc.edu//www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] on UK soil was moved to the Royal Free Hospital[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/scotland/11316994/Ebola-patient-transferred-to-Londons-Royal-Free-Hospital.html] on Tuesday morning.

The patient, who has not yet been named, was transferred from Glasgow Airport on a military-style plane in a quarantine tent surrounded by a group of health workers in full protection suits.

She had been working in Sierra Leone with Save the Children and was admitted to hospital early on Monday[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/scotland/11316757/Ebola-case-confirmed-in-Glasgow.html] after feeling feverish and was placed into isolation.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141230eacu001ry


NEWS
Ebola patient transferred to London's Royal Free Hospital
By Agency
974 words
30 December 2014
03:39 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Woman who became first to be diagnosed with Ebola in UK after working in Sierra Leone flown from Glasgow Airport on military-style plane in quarantine tent

An NHS worker who has been diagnosed with Ebola after returning to Glasgow from Sierra Leone has been moved to specialist facilities in London.

The woman, who had been working in Sierra Leone with Save the Children, had been in isolation in hospital in Glasgow since Monday morning and is in a stable condition.

It comes as another patient undergoes tests for possible Ebola symptoms at the Royal Cornwall Hospital, near Truro, after being admitted on Monday evening having returned from a "high-risk" area.

The confirmed Ebola patient flew back to the UK via Casablanca and London Heathrow, arriving at Glasgow Airport at around 11.30pm on Sunday on a British Airways flight.

She was admitted to hospital early on Monday after feeling feverish[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/scotland/11316757/Ebola-case-confirmed-in-Glasgow.html] and was placed into isolation in the Brownlee Unit for Infectious Diseases at the city's Gartnavel Hospital at 7.50am.

The woman was transferred from Glasgow Airport on a military-style plane in a quarantine tent surrounded by a group of health workers in full protection suits, bound for the Royal Free Hospital in north London.

A statement on the hospital's website said: "The Royal Free London can confirm that it is expecting to receive a patient who has tested positive for Ebola. The patient will be treated in the high level isolation unit (HLIU)."

Health officials are tracing the 71 other people who were on the British Airways flight from London to Glasgow with the woman.

It is the first time that a case of Ebola has been diagnosed on UK soil.

Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/scotland/11316942/Nicola-Sturgeon-confirms-first-case-of-Ebola-diagnosed-on-British-soil.html] said the risk to the general public is "extremely low to the point of negligible".

Apart from the other passengers on the flight and hospital staff, the patient is thought to have had contact with only one other person in Scotland, who is being contacted.

Ms Sturgeon said: "Given the early stage of the diagnosis, the patient was displaying no symptoms of the kind that would lead to onward transmission and put other people at risk before she reported as being unwell.

"Passengers on both the flight from Casablanca to Heathrow and Heathrow to Glasgow are being traced and contacted. They will be given the appropriate advice and reassurance."

She added: "Scotland has been preparing for this possibility from the beginning of the outbreak in west Africa and I am confident that we are well prepared.

"We have the robust procedures in place to identify cases rapidly. Our health service also has the expertise and facilities to ensure that confirmed Ebola cases such as this are contained and isolated, effectively minimising any potential spread of the disease."

The woman who became the first person in the UK to be diagnosed with Ebola had been working with Save the Children at the Ebola Treatment Centre at Kerry Town, Sierra Leone.

Michael von Bertele, Save the Children humanitarian director, said: "Our thoughts are with the individual, their family and colleagues at this difficult time. We wish them a speedy recovery.

"Save the Children is working closely with the UK Government, Scottish Government and Public Health England to look into the circumstances surrounding the case."

Health Protection Scotland is making contact with passengers who were on the flight to Glasgow.

Meanwhile, a statement from Royal Cornwall Hospital Trust said: "A patient has been admitted to Royal Cornwall Hospital and is currently undergoing a series of tests - one of which is for Ebola.

"We do not expect the results to be known for at least 24 hours and in the meantime the patient is being looked after in isolation, following nationally agreed guidelines and protocols to protect the health of our staff and other patients.

"Royal Cornwall Hospitals NHS Trust has been following national guidance around Ebola and made plans in line with advice from Public Health England and NHS England."

Health Protection England said the healthcare worker confirmed as having Ebola in Scotland left Sierra Leone on Sunday and was a passenger on flight AT596 from Freetown to Casablanca, flight AT0800 from Casablanca to London, and transferred at Heathrow to flight BA1478 for onward travel to Glasgow.

It said the risk of infection to other passengers on the flights is considered extremely low but, as a precaution, it is arranging for all passengers and crew on the flight from Casablanca to Heathrow to be provided with health information and will be contacting and following up those passengers who were sitting near the affected passenger on these flights.

The Scottish Government has set up a telephone helpline for anyone on the BA1478 flight which left Heathrow at 9pm on Sunday bound for Glasgow. The number is 08000 858531.

According to protocol for Ebola treatment in the UK she had to be transferred as soon as possible and when she arrives at the Royal Free Hospital the patient will be treated in the high-level isolation unit.

Ms Sturgeon chaired a meeting of the Scottish Government Resilience Committee and also spoke to Prime Minister David Cameron.

Downing Street said David Cameron phoned Ms Sturgeon regarding the case and made clear that the UK Government stood ready to assist "in any way possible", a No 10 spokesman said.

After chairing a meeting of the Whitehall Cobra contingencies committee in London, Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt said there would be a review of the "procedures and protocols" adopted by NHS workers and other government staff working in Sierra Leone.

He said the Government was doing "absolutely everything it needs to" to keep the public safe and that the measures it had put in place were working well.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141230eacu0015p


NEWS
Ebola case confirmed in Glasgow
By Simon Johnson
1009 words
30 December 2014
02:52 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A health care worker who was helping combat the disease in Sierra Leone has been diagnosed with the disease and is being treated at Gartnavel Hospital.

A woman returning home from Sierra Leone has become the first person in the UK to be diagnosed with Ebola.

Britain’s screening system for the disease immediately came under scrutiny after the NHS nurse’s condition was not detected in either country.

Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland’s First Minister, confirmed that a woman was being treated at Gartnavel Hospital in Glasgow after returning to Scotland via London.

She appealed for the public not to panic and said that the chances of a wider outbreak were “negligible”.

Scottish health authorities, Public Health England and British Airways were trying to trace all 71 passengers on the Heathrow to Glasgow flight who may have been exposed to the disease.

Ms Sturgeon said that the woman, a voluntary aid worker seconded from NHS Scotland, had been screened for Ebola before she left the West African country on a flight operated by a Moroccan-based airliner that travelled via Casablanca.

She left Sierra Leone on Dec 28 and had been a passenger on flight AT596 from Freetown to Casablanca before catching flight AT0800 from Casablanca to London.

The woman was also tested on her arrival at Heathrow before she took a connecting flight – about four hours later – to Glasgow at 9pm on Sunday, arriving in Scotland at 11.30pm on flight BA1478.

She started feeling unwell in the early hours of Monday morning and was taken to hospital by ambulance at 7.50am, where she was placed into an isolation unit. Doctors said last night that she was in a stable condition and her prognosis was good.

Save the Children confirmed the woman had been working in Kerry Town, Sierra Leone, and was an NHS Scotland employee.

According to regulations for tackling the disease, the patient will be transferred to an isolation unit at the Royal Free Hospital, London, as soon as possible.

Ms Sturgeon said the woman was screened twice but had displayed no symptoms of the disease.

She said the risk of it passing to other passengers on the same plane was extremely low as it appeared to have been caught at a very early stage.

Public health experts said the disease could incubate for eight or nine days within a carrier but it could not be passed on until they start displaying serious symptoms such as vomiting, not merely a fever.

However, the First Minister said health officials in Scotland and England were tracing the other passengers on both planes on which the woman was carried.

She confirmed there were 71 passengers on the plane from Heathrow to Glasgow and the woman had only been in contact with one other person in Scotland. However, she could not provide figures for the leg of the journey from Sierra Leone and the stopover in Heathrow.

Those sitting near the aid worker will be monitored, while those further away will be advised the risk of them contracting it is extremely low and told about the symptoms.

However a telephone helpline was set up for anyone who was on the Heathrow to Glasgow flight last night. The number is 08000 858531.

Ms Sturgeon said she chaired a meeting of the Scottish Government Resilience Committee (SGoRR) to ensure contingency plans were being followed and also spoke to David Cameron.

She said: “Our first thoughts at this time must be with the patient diagnosed with Ebola and their friends and family. I wish them a speedy recovery.

“Scotland has been preparing for this possibility from the beginning of the outbreak in West Africa and I am confident that we are well prepared.

“We have the robust procedures in place to identify cases rapidly. Our health service also has the expertise and facilities to ensure that confirmed Ebola cases such as this are contained and isolated effectively minimising any potential spread of the disease.”

The Scottish Government said the person’s name and age would not be released.

Jeremy Hunt, the Health Secretary, chaired a meeting of the Cobra emergency committee alongside health officials and experts.

Sources close to Mr Hunt said he is receiving regular updates from the airports authorities and senior health officials.

A Downing Street spokesman said: “The Prime Minister and the First Minister discussed the UK’s robust and practised response procedures in place and how these were being strictly followed.

“They agreed that both governments would remain in close touch and ensure everything possible was done to support the patient and, although the risk to the general population remained low, all measures would be taken to protect public health.

“The Prime Minister’s thoughts are with the patient and her friends and family at this difficult time.”

A British Airways spokesman said: “We are working closely with the health authorities in England and Scotland and will offer assistance with any information they require.

“Customers who flew from London Heathrow to Glasgow on BA1478 which departed at 2100 on Sunday December 28 and have concerns should contact the special number 08000 858531 set up by the Scottish Government.

“The safety and security of our customers and crew is always our top priority and the risk to people on board that individual flight is extremely low.”

A spokesman for the Royal Free Hospital said it was not yet clear when the patient would be transferred to London.

Prof Ian Jones, Professor of Virology, University of Reading, said: “This is an unfortunate development amid the news generally that the Ebola situation may be coming under control. However, with the experience of treating previous cases there is every chance of a speedy recovery and as the patient has been isolated there is essentially no risk to the general population at large.”

Prof Nigel Brown, President of the Society for General Microbiology, said: “Ebola is a very difficult virus to transmit. If a person is symptomless they are unable to infect anyone else.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141229eact003pf


NEWS
EasyJet flight forced to divert after declaring an emergency
By Telegraph reporter
149 words
29 December 2014
06:35 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Flight from Geneva to Manchester lands at London Stansted after pilot declares medical emergency

An easyJet flight has been forced to divert after declaring an emergency on board.

Flight EZY1954, from Geneva to Manchester, landed at London Stansted at around 10.30pm on Monday, just under two hours after it set off from the Swiss airport.

A spokeswoman for easyJet said that early indications were that a passenger had suffered a medical emergency.

It is understood that the medical condition is not Ebola-related.

The spokeswoman said: “easyJet can confirm that flight EZY1954 from Geneva to Manchester diverted to Stansted due to a passenger onboard requiring urgent medical assistance. The safety and wellbeing of our passengers and crew is easyJet’s highest priority.

“We apologise for any inconvenience experienced due to the diversion and resulting delay.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141229eact004v4


NEWS
Goodbye to one of the best years in history
By Fraser Nelson
962 words
29 December 2014
03:00 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
It might not feel like it, but we are safer, richer and healthier than at any time on record

Newspapers can seem like a rude intrusion into the Christmas holidays. We celebrate peace, goodwill and family – and then along come the headlines, telling us what’s going wrong in the world. Simon and Garfunkel made this point in 7 O’Clock News/Silent Night, a song juxtaposing a carol with a newsreader bringing bad tidings. But this is the nature of news. Whether it’s pub gossip or television bulletins, we’re more interested in what’s going wrong than with what’s going right.

Judging the world through headlines is like judging a city by spending a night in A&E – you only see the worst problems. This may have felt like the year of Ebola and Isil but in fact, objectively, 2014 has probably been the best year in history. Take war, for example – our lives now are more peaceful than at any time known to the human species. Archaeologists believe that 15 per cent of early mankind met a violent death, a ratio not even matched by the last two world wars. Since they ended, wars have become rarer and less deadly. More British soldiers died on the first day of the Battle of the Somme than in every post-1945 conflict put together.

The Isil barbarity in the Middle East is so shocking, perhaps, because it comes against a backdrop of unprecedented world peace.

We have recently been celebrating a quarter-century since the collapse of the Berlin Wall, which kicked off a period of global calm. The Canadian academic Steven Pinker has called this era the “New Peace”, noting that conflicts of all kinds – genocide, autocracy and even terrorism – went on to decline sharply the world over. Pinker came up with the phrase four years ago, but only now can we see the full extent of its dividends.

With peace comes trade and, ergo, prosperity. Global capitalism has transferred wealth faster than foreign aid ever could.

A study in the current issue of The Lancet shows what all of this means. Global life expectancy now stands at a new high of 71.5 years, up six years since 1990. In India, life expectancy is up seven years for men, and 10 for women. It’s rising faster in the impoverished east of Africa than anywhere else on the planet. In Rwanda and Ethiopia, life expectancy has risen by 15 years.

This helps explain why Bob Geldof’s latest Band Aid single now sounds so cringingly out-of-date. Africans certainly do know it’s Christmas – a Nigerian child is almost twice as likely to mark the occasion by attending church than a British one. The Ebola crisis has led to 7,000 deaths, each one a tragedy. But far more lives have been saved by the progress against malaria, HIV and diarrhoea. The World Bank’s rate of extreme poverty (those living on less than $1.25 a day) has more than halved since 1990, mainly thanks to China – where economic growth and the assault on poverty are being unwittingly supported by any parent who put a plastic toy under the tree yesterday.

Britons don’t need to look abroad for signs of progress. The Lancet report showed that, since 1990, life expectancy in Western Europe is up by five years – thanks, mainly, to fewer deaths from cancer and heart disease.

Ministers are now fretting about something else: a “time bomb” created because citizens are living longer and healthier lives than ever; the Queen now needs a team of seven people to send birthday cards to centenarians. Even the winter, one of our biggest killers, is losing its bite. For decades, at least 25,000 pensioners have died of cold-related diseases. A few weeks ago, it emerged that last winter the figure had fallen to 18,200 - the lowest ever recorded. Almost half a century after the moon landing, we’re finally working out how to insulate the homes of the elderly.

Prosperity is bringing benefits without trashing the planet. Since 1990, the UK’s greenhouse gas emissions are down, in spite of our economy being about 60 per cent larger – thanks to more efficient technology. Our roads are safer, as well as greener. Traffic deaths are down by two-thirds since 1990, and are lower now than when the Model T Ford was on the road.

Prosperity does bring new problems; obesity, the resulting diabetes and the costs of far longer (and better) end-of-life care. But these are the problems of success.

Just over a century ago, a period of similarly rapid progress was coming to an abrupt end. The Belle Époque was a generation of scientific, medical and artistic advances, which, then, felt unstoppable. John Buchan summed up this mood in his 1913 novel The Power House. “You think that a wall as solid as the earth separates civilisation from barbarism,” one of his characters says. “I tell you: the division is a thread, a sheet of glass. A touch here, a push there, and you bring back the reign of Saturn.” So it was to prove.

Nothing is irreversible. And there will be a great many people for whom life is tough, and looks set to remain so for some time. We still have a lamentably long list of problems to solve. But in the round, there’s no denying it: we are living in the Golden Era. There has never been a better reason for people the world over to wish each other a happy and prosperous new year.

Fraser Nelson is editor of 'The Spectator’

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141229eact0040h


Who were the Heroes and Villains of 2014?
By William Langley
2733 words
29 December 2014
09:22 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
From the brave to the bigoted, the awe-inspiring to the outrageous, this has been a year of colourful characters. Here, we round up the names we’ll long remember...

The year began amid ill omens of doom and ruination, with floods, gales and high tides – yet these also brought us a helpful reminder of how both heroism and villainy can arise from such unhappy circumstances. With much of the West Country under water, thousands of small good deeds were performed with the aim of keeping communities safe, dry and supplied with food. But as the waters receded, the villains were exposed, and many fingers pointed at the Environment Agency, whose refusal to dredge water courses was attributed to its newly politically correct agenda of putting the interests of water voles before those of the bedraggled humans who pay its bills.

Good and bad politics floated to the top, with a Ukip councillor offering the suggestion that the floods had been God’s revenge for the legalisation of gay marriage. Yet the party played a heroic role in highlighting the snobbery and condescension of a Westminster elite which seems astonished that anyone could hold the kind of views that wouldn’t cut la moutarde at a north London dinner party. Take a bow, Mrs Emily Thornberry, Labour’s

(ex-) shadow attorney general, whose mocking tweet of a white-van driver’s house in Rochester made the point perfectly.

The 100th anniversary of the First World War brought heroism and villainy into the sharpest focus, with the bravery and sacrifice of millions of ordinary troops set against the stupidity and cruelty that characterised so much of the war’s direction. The Tower of London’s phenomenally popular poppy display made small heroes of all who created and visited it.

But, as ever, there’s a fine line between getting things right and getting them wrong. Was Kate and William’s visit to New York special or schmaltzy? When World Cup footballer Luis Suárez sank his fangs into an opponent, was it pointless savagery or a protest against global hunger? While readers will always have their own views, here is our list of the heroes and villains of 2014.

HEROES

MALALA YOUSAFZAI

Six days after the 17-year-old schoolgirl from northern Pakistan became the youngest recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize, events showed how elusive her vision of peace would be. Malala, who was raised in the remote Swat Valley, was shot in the head by the Taliban in October 2012 for promoting girls’ education, through campaigns and example. In her Nobel speech, she declared: “The terrorists thought they would change my aims and stop my ambitions, but nothing changed in my life except this: weakness, fear and hopelessness died. Strength, power and courage was born.” The terrorists’ response was to kill 145 children at a school in Peshawar.

ANN MAGUIRE

Mrs Maguire was, in every sense, an “old-school” teacher – patient, firm and committed to the idea that while educational fashions change, children do not. She had taught at the Corpus Christi Catholic College in Leeds for more than 40 years, and was considered the “mother of the school”. On April 28, as she was leaning over, helping a pupil with her work, 15-year-old Will Cornick rose from his desk and fatally stabbed her in the back and neck. Shortly before her death, Mrs Maguire had told the school magazine: “Corpus children are very special to me. They are our finest ambassadors; hard-working, friendly, fun to be with. You have to love children. They are fascinating. Every child is different.” Cornick, who had developed “a deep and irrational hatred” for her, was sentenced to a minimum of 20 years in prison.

STEPHEN SUTTON

As his breezy blog postings made clear, the fundraising teenage cancer victim declined to think of himself as a victim. “I look for no sympathy,” he wrote, “…because in a really cheesy, defining and perhaps peculiarly ironic way, in the long term at least, I see it as one of the best things that has happened in my life.” Diagnosed with colorectal cancer in 2010, the Staffordshire schoolboy had raised £3 million for the Teenage Cancer Trust by the time of his death, aged 19, in May. A film adaptation of his phenomenally popular blog, Stephen’s Story, will be released next year.

LYNDA BELLINGHAM

Wreathed in the meaty whiff of Oxo gravy, actress Lynda Bellingham presented an image of such English heartiness that it was hard to imagine anything making her ill. When the long-running advertising campaign was scrapped – on the morale-lowering grounds that “family meals are a thing of the past” – she rebuilt her stage and TV career, becoming one of the country’s most popular personalities.

In September she announced that she was giving up treatment for bowel cancer, on the grounds that she wanted to be in control of her own death and not be a burden on her family. It came a month later when she died, at the age of 66, in the arms of her third husband, Michael Pattemore.

GORDON BROWN

It was easy to imagine the largely unlamented Gordon being bitter and sulking in his Kirkcaldy lair, but with the Union in peril, it was the 63-year-old ex-PM who emerged as the nation’s saviour. In a rousing speech on the eve of the Scottish independence referendum he evoked 300 years of togetherness, telling a cheering audience: “We fought two world wars together. And there is not a cemetery in Europe that does not have Scots, English, Welsh and Irish lying side by side. And when young men were injured in these wars, they didn’t look to each other and ask whether you were Scots or English, they came to each other’s aid because we were part of a common cause.” Ahead in the polls before Gordon sat down, the nationalists were routed.

WILL POOLEY

While working as a volunteer nurse in Sierra Leone, 29-year-old Pooley became the first Briton to catch Ebola in the current outbreak. He was flown home by the RAF, treated for three weeks in an isolation ward, and, almost immediately after being discharged, returned to the frontline in Freetown. “I know my mum’s worried, but I love the work,” he explained. “To see people come in expecting to die, and then being able to walk out of the hospital is fantastic.” Medical opinion holds that no one can catch Ebola twice. Who but a real hero would want to test the theory?

PROFESSOR ALEXIS JAY

While many found the sensitivities around the Rotherham child sex abuse scandal easier to avoid, veteran social worker Prof Alexis Jay, 65, produced a landmark report, rich not only in detail but also candour. “The utter brutality of what happened is what shocked me most,” she said. But almost as shocking were her revelations of the police’s lack of interest in the victims, and the local authorities’ desperation to avoid “causing offence” to the ethnic Pakistani community from which most of the abusers came. The reluctance of anyone in Rotherham to accept responsibility perfectly illustrated her findings.

PHYLLIS LATOUR DOYLE

For several decades after her Second World War spying career ended, 93-year-old Phyllis Latour Doyle chose to remain in the shadows. Even her four children had no idea of her exploits as an agent in Occupied France. The child of a French father and English mother, Phyllis joined the Women’s Auxiliary Air Force in 1941, later being recruited by the Special Operations Executive (SOE) and parachuted behind enemy lines to gather information on German positions. Her “cover” was finally blown this year when her eldest son found a reference to her in an online military archive. In November, France’s ambassador to New Zealand, where Phyllis now lives in robust health, awarded her the Légion d’honneur.

LEWIS HAMILTON

They were fuming on the fairways and choking in the clubhouses, but racing driver Lewis Hamilton’s win over Rory McIlroy in the BBC Sports Personality of the Year award was not such a travesty as the golfer’s outraged fans claimed. Hamilton had come from nowhere – the bookies originally had him at a distant 4-1 – to take the prize on a huge late surge of voting. The public hasn’t always warmed to Hamilton, but his triumph in this year’s Formula One championship served as a reminder of how far the 29‑year-old has come from humble beginnings, and his gracious SPOTY speech showed he is neither as flash nor as gormless as his critics claim.

PRINCE GEORGE

In a remarkable first full year of life, Prince George has flown more than 50,000 miles, performed public engagements with élan, enchanted everyone who has set eyes on him and – most significantly of all – reassured the monarchy that its future is in good hands. Cuteness now, goes the thinking at Court, will be competence later, and it is hard to exaggerate the degree of relief that the toddler prince has brought to the royal establishment. George was a showstopper in Australia, and his every appearance is an occasion. With a sibling in the works, however, our future king may have to fight harder for his share of the limelight.

VILLAINS

ANDREW MITCHELL

In today’s prissy version of politics, you call a policeman a pleb at your peril. Especially if you are a well-to-do Tory chief whip, once known around the draughty dorms of Rugby School as “Thrasher”, and with a reputation for killing wasps with your bare hands. Irascible, if perhaps misunderstood, Andrew Mitchell has attracted quality enemies throughout his career, and their joy when he lost a £3 million High Court libel action against a newspaper that published the “pleb” claims was something to behold. Unchastened, the dog-loving multimillionaire is said to be planning a post-election comeback.

WHITE DEE

Foul-mouthed and work-shy, with a taste for nightclub champagne, what’s not to like about White Dee, the Queen of Benefits Street? The 42-year-old single mother sprang to fame in a Channel 4 series about the supposedly struggling residents of a street in Birmingham. Soon Deirdre Kelly’s thoughts on the plight of the underclass were resounding across the nation. “If they scrapped the bedroom tax,” she explained, “people wouldn’t have to grow weed in their spare rooms.” Sadly, Dee’s fame quickly rocketed her out of the hardship bracket, and she was last heard of on Celebrity Big Brother, having been paid a £100,000 appearance fee, and getting engaged to a Jamaican DJ.

SEPP BLATTER

Secure in his Swiss bunker, the dapper Blofeld lookalike idly stroked his white Persian as the biggest scandal of his 17-year leadership of world football raged above ground. Somehow – although Herr Blatter denies any knowledge of it – huge wodges of dodgy money appear to have secured Qatar the 2018 World Cup at Britain’s expense. The 78-year-old Fifa president’s regular gaffes – including his suggestion that women’s football would be more popular if the players wore tighter shorts, and that abstinence was the best way around Qatar’s laws against homosexuality – should have sounded the full-time whistle on his career. Yet from his snowy lair Sepp has signalled a desire for a fresh term. Purr, purr.

ISLAMIC STATE

Crazy, evil, barbaric… the condemnation of Islamic State is reaching the outer limits of rhetoric, but the group’s appetite for atrocity remains unsated, and its appeal to Western wannabe jihadists is worryingly intact. While it would be wrong to highlight the fate of individuals among the thousands murdered, enslaved and driven from their homes, Britain’s particular revulsion at the beheadings of aid workers David Haines and Alan Henning was heightened by the realisation that the man with the knife spoke with a London accent.

ROLF HARRIS

After a trial that saddened as much as it shocked, we saw that Rolf Harris’s greatest talent was painting out the darkness in his own life. For half a century, Harris, 84, with his ditties, doodles and avuncular Aussie playfulness, had been a friend to all of us, but only because, as it transpired over weeks of ghastly testimony, we didn’t know what he was really like. Here was a classic child sex abuser – malevolent, ruthless, egotistical, and immune to the suffering he caused to those who trusted him. Which, in a sense, included all of us.

BLACK FRIDAY

There were fights in the forecourts, arguments in the aisles and tugs of war at the tills. Whatever small reputation the British had for orderly shopping collapsed with the arrival of Black Friday, our end-of-November national retail riot. Borrowed from the US, as a supposed way of kickstarting Christmas, the dubious bargains on offer brought out the worst in those who went looking for them. How have we reached the point where police are needed to keep order in supermarkets, and a blood-stained credit card can be held up as a badge of honour?

VLADIMIR PUTIN

The world may scoff and fume at Russia’s pint-sized superman, but it takes more than a collapsing rouble and a few mysterious disappearances to dent Vladimir Putin’s popularity at home. The 62-year-old, prune-faced president’s name and likeness are inescapable – on Putinka-brand vodka, PuTin canned reindeer meat, Putina caviar, and the solid gold Supremo Putin smartphone. What’s a minor transgression like annexing Crimea, when you are the star of pop songs, children’s storybooks and TV soaps? And all this with an 86 per cent approval rating. Yet around the cult of personality and nationhood a cold wind is blowing, and Russians might yet remember Tolstoy’s maxim that: “The greater the power of the state, the more wrong and cruel is its patriotism.”

FRANCOIS HOLLANDE

Beneath the twinkling chandeliers of the Elysée Palace, François Hollande wore the pale, sweaty look of a man in deep trouble. The economy was collapsing, the voters were in despair, but as France’s beleaguered Socialist leader spluttered at the podium, everyone knew that these were the least of his problems. The big one was the women.

Days before his annual address to the nation in February, the 60-year-old president had been caught sneaking into the apartment of glamorous blonde actress Julie Gayet. Photographs plastered over seven pages of a glossy magazine showed him arriving on the back of a scooter, and leaving the next morning after an energy-boosting breakfast of finest Parisian pastries, delivered by a bodyguard. Hollande’s outraged girlfriend, fiery ex-journalist Valérie Trierweiler, took justified revenge with a book in which she portrayed him as a snob and a weakling.

RUSSELL BRAND

Every ideologue has a guilty secret, and Russell Brand’s turned out to be the discreet attendance of a personal chest-hair groomer. That and the fact that as the year went on, the mockney-spouting, cod-revolutionary began to sound less like the answer to anything and more like part of the problem. Maybe all the drugs have deadened Russell’s irony-receptors, but the 39-year-old multimillionaire comedian didn’t seem to grasp that appearing on Question Time (chest curlies duly straightened), dodging awkward questions and confusing scrutiny with intrusion is exactly what the mainstream politicians he objects to do. Welcome to the Establishment, Old Boy!

KIM KARDASHIAN

The 34-year-old reality TV star’s glistening derrière became the internet image of the year and, sadly, there is no sign of her annoyingness bottoming out. In August, she married Kanye West, an American rapper whose acquaintance she had somehow squeezed in during her 72-day first marriage to record producer Damon Thomas. The pair promptly proclaimed themselves to be “the world’s most talked-about couple”, although the talk was not always flattering. Considering Kim’s end-of-year photo-shoot, Time magazine sniffed: “We want there to be something more, some reason or context, some great explanation that tells us what it is like to live in this very day and age, but there is not. Kim Kardashian’s ass is nothing but an empty promise.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141228eacs000pg


NEWS
Heart 'emoji' the most used character online in 2014
By Agency
532 words
29 December 2014
07:36 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Emoticon for love becomes most used character worldwide and first time pictograph captures Word of the Year honours

Emoji and other emoticon are driving a radical change in the evolution of the English language as pictographs become ingrained into the world's vocabulary, a study has found.

The heart emoji for love was the top word of 2014 used worldwide and the first time a pictograph has captured Word of the Year honours.

The list was complied by the 15th annual survey of the English language by the the Global Language Monitor, which analyses the internet, social media including Twitter as well as print and electronic news media.

Each emoji represents an emotion, expression, state of mind, or a person, place or thing. There are now around 722 characters, with another 250 being made available during the next year and 37 more due for approval in June 2015.

Social media and the internet are also driving the language forward with hashtag, photobomb - the act of gatecrashing a selfie - and bae - a term of endearment for one's object of desire - making it into the top 10.

Changing habits have also given rise to vape - smoking an electronic or e-cigarette, shorthand for vaporise - or vaping, while scientific advances have seen nano enter the common language.

This year also saw Ebola take the top spot ahead of Pope Francis.

The world's top phrase was "Hands Up, Don't Shoot", which was chanted by demonstrators against the police shooting of an unarmed black man in Ferguson, Missouri.

In 2000, the top word was chad, top phrase dot.com and top name W for Dubya - President Bush.

GLM's president Paul Payack said: "The English Language is now undergoing a remarkable transformation unlike any in its 1,400-year history - its system of writing the alphabet is gaining characters at amazing rate.

"These character are ideographs or pictographs that are called emoji and emoticons.

"There are about a thousand emoji characters now officially recognised by Unicode Consortium, the official keepers of coding that forms the basis of the internet.

"They regularly review new suggestions with the next 37 or so being finalised for June 2015.

"Then the new emoji can be embedded in any number of devices for any number of languages.

"The AlphaBIT now includes letters, numbers, the diacritical marks that compose emoticons, as well as clever electronic solutions that provide real-time access to more than hundreds of emoji."

Top Words of 2014:

• Heart emoji

• Hashtag

• Vape

• Blood moon

• Nano

• Photobomb

• Caliphate

• White privilege

• Bae

• Bash tag

• Transparency

• Sustainable

• Clickbait

• Quindecennial (a 15-year anniversary)

• Comet

Top Phrases of 2014

• Hands up, don't shoot

• Cosmic inflation (explosive growth of the universe from virtually nothing)

• Global warming

• Climate change

• War on women (Isil forcing women into sex slavery)

• All-time high

• Rogue nukes

• Near-Earth asteroid

• Big data

• Polar vector

Top Names of 2014

• Ebola

• Pope Francis

• World War One

• Médecins Sans Frontières

• MH370

• FIFA World Cup

• Ice Bucket Challenge

• Crimea

• The mid-terms

• NSA

• Prince George of Cambridge or HRH Georgie

• Malala Yousafzai

• Xi Jinping

• President Obama

• Sochi Olympics

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141229eact001xl


NEWS
The Telegraph most read and shared stories of 2014
By Ben Hazell
682 words
29 December 2014
04:45 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
From Band Aid to Frozen, Gaza to Ukraine, these are the most read, shared, viewed and commented on articles published on The Telegraph in 2014.

Most Read

Our most read article of 2014, viewed over four and a half million times, was from Bryony Gordon: Why Adele was right to ignore Bob Geldof and Band Aid [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11236278/Why-Adele-was-right-to-ignore-Bob-Geldof-and-Band-Aid.html]

In the shallow, self-promoting world of celebrity, the simple and silent act of handing over money to charity is not the done thing – that’s what we impoverished plebs do.

Instead, the rich and famous donate their precious time, and for this they expect to be celebrated and congratulated, as if before they flashed their expensively whitened teeth in the video for a song, we had no idea that Ebola was a problem, or that thousands of Africans were spending their last days on this earth in unimaginable horror, bleeding from every orifice, unable even to be comforted by their family and loved ones.

Over on Finance the most read piece came in December from Ambrose Evans-Pritchard on oil prices, who wrote that Bank of America sees $50 oil as Opec dies.[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/oilprices/11283875/Bank-of-America-sees-50-oil-as-Opec-dies.html]

The Opec oil cartel no longer exists in any meaningful sense and crude prices will slump to $50 a barrel over the coming months as market forces shake out the weakest producers, Bank of America has warned.

Revolutionary changes sweeping the world’s energy industry will drive down the price of liquefied natural gas (LNG), creating a “multi-year” glut and a much cheaper source of gas for Europe.

Our most read Sport story of the year was our minute by minute live coverage of the biggest sporting event of the year, the World Cup final between Germany and Argentina[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/world-cup/10959517/World-Cup-final-2014-Germany-vs-Argentina-as-it-happened.html] .

113 mins: GOAL! GERMANY! Finally the deadlock is broken. Germany build down the left, a superb run from Schurrle sucks three defenders towards him, he crosses for Gotze. Lovely control on the chest, and he's smashed a wonderful shot home past the keeper. Germany 1 Argentina 0 (Gotze 113)

Most Shared

Bryony's Band Aid article was also our most shared page of the year, being shared on Facebook and Twitter 248,000 times.

A close runner up from October was our story on a potential cure for Type 1 diabetes after a stem cell breakthrough at Harvard[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/science/science-news/11151909/Cure-for-Type-1-diabetes-imminent-after-Harvard-stem-cell-breakthrough.html], which was shared 230,000 times.

It marks the culmination of 23-years of research for Harvard professor Doug Melton who has been trying to find a cure for the disease since his son Sam was diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes as a baby.

“We are now just one pre-clinical step away from the finish line,” said Prof Melton.

On Twitter, our most widely shared piece was this graphic on Palestinian children killed by Israeli forces[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/middleeast/palestinianauthority/10984259/Revealed-the-Palestinian-children-killed-by-Israeli-forces.html], tweeted out 24,000 times.

The most commented on story of the year was our live coverage in March of the crisis in the Ukraine[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/ukraine/10669670/Ukraine-Russia-crisis-live.html], as unmarked Russian soldiers appeared in the Crimea region. Nearly 15,000 comments were left on this article by Telegraph readers.

The next most commented story was on climate change, with readers leaving more than 12,000 comments on Christopher Booker's piece, The scandal of fiddled global warming data.[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/earth/environment/10916086/The-scandal-of-fiddled-global-warming-data.html]

When future generations try to understand how the world got carried away around the end of the 20th century by the panic over global warming, few things will amaze them more than the part played in stoking up the scare by the fiddling of official temperature data.

Most Viewed

The most popular video we published in 2014 was Frozen related, as Brian Hull covered the hit songs[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/men/the-filter/virals/10700075/Man-sings-Let-it-Go-in-voices-of-Disney-and-Pixar-characters.html] in the style of a range of Disney characters.

The most viewed picture gallery of the year contained amazing photos by Thom Atkinson of the equipment of British soldiers[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/history/world-war-one/11006139/Inventories-of-war-soldiers-kit-from-1066-to-2014.html], from a 1066 huscarl to a 2014 Royal Engineer. We also produced a full breakdown of every item[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/history/world-war-one/11011316/Military-kit-through-the-ages-from-the-Battle-of-Hastings-to-Helmand.html] .

And finally, the most viewed Matt cartoon of the year was from January 16th.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141229eact001gt


NEWS
2014 in pictures: the year from A-Z
By Tim Moore, interactive by Jack Kempster, Mark Oliver and Dan Palmer
217 words
27 December 2014
02:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The Telegraph Magazine presents its most compelling images and stories of 2014.

Race riots in the US, conflict in Gaza, ever more extreme weather and England doing really badly at the World Cup – it was a year that told us the same old stories. Along with some happier new ones, epic tales of drawn-out human endeavour that defied our age of knee-jerk, quick-fix short-termism: a four-billion-mile mission to land a probe on the head of a comet, a film that followed the same actors for 12 years, and an elderly professor seeing his life’s work rewarded by the paralysed man who walked again.

A referendum very nearly disunited our kingdom, just as the rise and rise of UKIP showed that many wanted out of a larger union. Ebola spread wholesale panic throughout the Western world – though little more than weary grief in western Africa, where even at the height of the epidemic, diarrhoea was killing seven times more people every day.

And in the centenary of the war to end all wars, unfolding events in Ukraine and the Middle East reminded us of a terrible lesson mankind never learned.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141227eacr000p8


News
Archbishop of Canterbury diagnosed with pneumonia
Gregory Walton
360 words
27 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
5
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
THE Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby, has been confined to bed by a bout of pneumonia, it has been revealed, explaining why he missed giving his Christmas Day sermon.

Lambeth Palace confirmed he is suffering from the condition but insisted the Archbishop, 58, is not "at death's door". It had initially stated that the Archbishop was suffering from a severe cold. It is thought he has been visited by his GP at his Canterbury home.

The Archbishop's spokesman said he would need "bed rest for a few days" after he was forced to pull out of the annual Canterbury Cathedral service on Christmas Day.

Lambeth Palace earlier denied suggestions the Archbishop was suffering from Ebola, having just returned from Sierra Leone, a hotspot for the disease.

A spokesman said the Archbishop was suffering from a "head cold" which pre– dated his trip to West Africa, and had since been "fully checked out" by doctors.

His daughter Katharine paid tribute to the NHS staff who have cared for the Archbishop. "Just to flag it up – Dad's severe cold turned out to be pneumonia. On the mend now thanks to brill NHS coming to visit yesterday!" she tweeted.

The Archbishop's spokesman told The Daily Telegraph she had been contacted by him yesterday, when he sent a text message saying he was feeling better.

On Christmas Day the Dean of Canterbury, the Very Rev Robert Willis, delivered a homily in his place.

The Archbishop had been due to deliver an address on the true spirit of Christmas.

In the planned address, published online, the Archbishop alluded to the First World War truce on Christmas Day 1914, saying it "illustrates something of the heart of Christmas".

"The problem is that the way it is told now it seems to end with a 'happy ever after'.

"We like Christmas stories with happy endings: singing carols, swapping photos, shaking hands, sharing chocolate, but the following day the war continued with the same severity.

"Nothing had changed; it was a oneday wonder. That is not the world in which we live, truces are rare."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141227eacr0005v


NEWS
Archbishop of Canterbury has pneumonia, Lambeth Palace confirms
By Emily Gosden and Gregory Walton
649 words
26 December 2014
02:25 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Lambeth Palace has said that Justin Welby is suffering from pneumonia, not simply a 'severe cold' as it had earlier stated - but is 'not at death's door'

The Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby has been confined to bed by a bout of pneumonia, it has been revealed, allaying fears that he had contracted Ebola in Sierra Leone.

Lambeth Palace confirmed that he is suffering from the condition but insisted that the Archbishop, 59, is not at "at death's door". It is thought that he has been visited by his NHS medical staff believed to be his GP at his Canterbury home.

Mr Welby's spokesman said that he would need "bed rest for a few days" after he was forced to pull out of the annual Canterbury Cathedral service on Christmas Day.

The Archbishop had been due to deliver an address on the true spirit of Christmas but cancelled due to poor health.

Lambeth Palace was earlier forced to deny that the Archbishop was suffering from Ebola, having just returned Sierra Leone, a hotspot for the disease.

A spokesman said Archbishop Welby was suffering from a "head cold" which pre–dated his trip to West Africa, and had since been "fully checked out" by doctors.

His daughter Katharine meanwhile paid tribute to the NHS who have cared for the Archbishop.

"Just to flag it up - dad's severe cold turned out to be pneumonia. On the mend now thanks to brill NHS coming to visit yesterday!" she Tweeted yesterday.

The Archbishop's spokesman told the Telegraph the the he had contacted her by text message yesterday to say that he was feeling better.

On Christmas Day The Dean of Canterbury, the Very Rev Robert Willis, delivered a homily in his place while the text of the Archbishop's planned address was published online[http://www.archbishopofcanterbury.org/articles.php/5469/archbishop-of-canterburys-christmas-sermon] .

Lambeth Palace had initially stated that the Archbishop was suffering from a severe cold but confirmed that the more serious diagnosis of pneumonia had been made late on Thursday afternoon.

Pneumonia is the inflammation of tissues in the lungs, and is usually caused by an infection. Symptoms include a cough, fever and breathing difficulties.

Treatment normally is normally limited to a course antibiotics, bed rest and rehydration. Howeverin some cases, particularly for those patients with underlying medical problems, pneumonia can prove fatal.

The Archbishop's planned address warned that Christmas was in danger of becoming a "naive",[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/a/11312752] "fictional”, and “tidy” celebration which fails to address the reality of suffering in the world.

The Archbishop of Canterbury did not deliver his Christmas Day sermon because of the illness.

Lambeth Palace had said the Most Rev Justin Welby has been suffering from a "severe cold" for several days and decided that he was too unwell to speak at the annual Canterbury Cathedral service.

A Lambeth Palace spokesman earlier said: "The Archbishop of Canterbury, the Most Rev Justin Welby, is suffering from a severe cold and will, with great regret, no longer be preaching the sermon at Canterbury Cathedral this morning."

He had been due to talk about how the true spirit of Christmas cannot be captured in fairytale endings, using the example of the First World War Christmas truce in 1914.

The Archbishop had been due to say: "The truce illustrates something of the heart of Christmas, whereby God sends his Son, that vulnerable sign of peace, to a weary war-torn world.

"The problem is that the way it is told now it seems to end with a 'happy ever after'.

"Of course we like Christmas stories with happy endings: singing carols, swapping photos, shaking hands, sharing chocolate, but the following day the war continued with the same severity.

"Nothing had changed; it was a one-day wonder.

"That is not the world in which we live, truces are rare."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141226eacq001us


NEWS
Queen uses Christmas Day speech to promote reconciliation and forgiveness
By Luke Heighton
1006 words
26 December 2014
03:41 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Monarch urges peace in annual address, but admits many voters feel “great disappointment” over Scottish referendum result

The Queen used her Christmas Day broadcast to call for reconciliation between the people of Scotland in the wake of the divisive independence referendum.

In her annual address to the nation, she said that while many felt "great relief" at the ‘No’ vote, many voters still felt a sense of “great disappointment” and that bridging those differences would “take time”.

The Queen also drew on her trip to Northern Ireland, her visit to see the ceramic poppies at the Tower of London and the 1914 Christmas truce during the First World War as she spoke about the “peaceful end to conflict”.

And she spoke with personal conviction about her faith and how Christ's example taught her to "respect and value all people of whatever faith or none".

The Queen began by talking about a sculpture by Josefina de Vasconcellos - in the ruins of the old Coventry Cathedral - of a man and woman embracing called ‘Reconciliation’, the theme of her Christmas broadcast.

“Reconciliation is the peaceful end to conflict, and we were reminded of this in August when countries on both sides of the First World War came together to remember in peace,” she said.

“The ceramic poppies at the Tower of London drew millions, and the only possible reaction to seeing them and walking among them was silence. For every poppy a life; and a reminder of the grief of loved ones left behind.

“No one who fought in that war is still alive, but we remember their sacrifice and indeed the sacrifice of all those in the armed forces who serve and protect us today.

“In 1914, many people thought the war would be over by Christmas, but sadly by then the trenches were dug and the future shape of the war in Europe was set. But, as we know, something remarkable did happen that Christmas, exactly a hundred years ago today.

“Without any instruction or command, the shooting stopped and German and British soldiers met in No Man's Land. Photographs were taken and gifts exchanged. It was a Christmas truce.”

Black and white photographs of the opposing forces meeting over the 1914 Christmas period were shown during the broadcast, recorded earlier this month in Buckingham Palace's state dining room.

The Queen returned to this historic moment again later in her address, saying: "Sometimes it seems that reconciliation stands little chance in the face of war and discord. But, as the Christmas truce a century ago reminds us, peace and goodwill have lasting power in the hearts of men and women."

The Queen said the “benefits of reconciliation” were clear to see when she visited Crumlin Road Gaol in Belfast in June. It is now a visitor attraction and conference centre and "a place of hope and fresh purpose".

She said: “While my tour of the set of Game Of Thrones may have gained most attention, my visit to the Crumlin Road Gaol will remain vividly in my mind.

"What was once a prison during the Troubles is now a place of hope and fresh purpose; a reminder of what is possible when people reach out to one another, rather like the couple in the sculpture."

As the Queen spoke, footage of the visit was shown including the monarch walking through the famous building with Stormont First Minister Peter Robinson and Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness - both of whom spent time in its cells in the 1970s or 1980s.

The Queen, who wore a purple dress by Angela Kelly and a diamond and pearl brooch inherited from her grandmother, Queen Mary, added: "Of course, reconciliation takes different forms. In Scotland after the referendum many felt great disappointment, while others felt great relief; and bridging these differences will take time."

In the run-up to the September vote on Scotland's future, the Queen was reported to have told a well-wisher outside Crathie Kirk, near her Balmoral estate, that Scots should "think very carefully about the future" when casting their ballot.

The Queen recorded her Christmas message seated next to a table displaying separate pictures of her grandparents George V and Queen Mary and an embossed brass box.

The box was a Christmas day gift for those serving overseas in the First World War during 1914, and was organised by the Sailors & Soldiers Christmas Fund created by Princess Mary, George's daughter, and filled with a variety of gifts, from tobacco for smokers to chocolate for nurses.

Speculation that the Queen might use the speech to announce her abdication proved unfounded.

Instead she praised the “selflessness” of aid workers and medical volunteers who helped tackle the Ebola crisis and talked about how sport was a "wonderful way of bringing together people and nations". She highlighted this year's Commonwealth Games, staged in Glasgow during the summer, and the Invictus Games, organised by Prince Harry, for injured servicemen.

The Royal Marines Band was featured at the start of the broadcast playing the national anthem in Buckingham Palace's gardens, and was shown at the close performing the Christmas carol Silent Night.

The Queen turned to the religious significance of Christmas as her address came to an end and she described how the life of Jesus Christ was an "inspiration and an anchor in my life".

She said: "Christ's example has taught me to seek to respect and value all people, of whatever faith or none."

As the military band played the carol, the Queen ended her address with the words: "On that chilly Christmas Eve in 1914 many of the German forces sang Silent Night, its haunting melody inching across the line.

"That carol is still much-loved today, a legacy of the Christmas truce, and a reminder to us all that even in the unlikeliest of places hope can still be found.

"A very happy Christmas to you all."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141226eacq0012x


News
Sierra Leone locks down north in anti–Ebola fight
Our Foreign Staff
255 words
26 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
22
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
THE government of Sierra Leone has declared a five–day lockdown in the country's Northern Region to step up efforts to contain the Ebola epidemic, while making an exception for Christmas.

"Muslims and Christians are not allowed to hold services in mosques and churches throughout the lockdown except for Christians on Christmas Day," said Alie Kamara, a minister for the Northern Region. The lockdown was designed "to intensify the containment of the Ebola virus", he said, adding: "We are working to break the chain of transmission."

Theo Nicol, deputy communication minister, said: "Other districts will carry on with their own individual lockdown after this if they deem it necessary."

Ebola has killed more than 7,500 people, almost all of them in West Africa. Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea are the three countries worsthit by the epidemic. Sierra Leone recently overtook Liberia as the country with the highest number of infections.

In America, a laboratory technician at the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) was being monitored yesterday for possible accidental exposure to the Ebola virus during an experiment, officials said.

The person was working in a secure laboratory in Atlanta, Georgia, and might have come into contact with a small amount of a live virus, Barbara Reynolds, the CDC spokesman, said in a statement.

The experimental material was on a sealed plate but was apparently not supposed to be moved into the laboratory in which the technician was working.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141226eacq0005s


News
Suited, booted and ready to get Ebola under control
Sarah Rainey
1374 words
26 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
21
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A British charity is training Africans how to wear a protective outfit. Sarah Rainey tries it for size

The room is framed by a small square of transparent plastic, clamped to each of my cheeks and secured with a strap around my forehead. My breathing, growing ever more laboured, sounds like an astronaut's; the erratic inhale and exhale of someone short on oxygen and trying not to panic. A paper mask is suckered to my nose and mouth, and over my head is a skin–tight hood.

Condensation is fogging up my field of vision and my limbs – swathed in surgical scrubs and plastic sheeting – feel heavy and sluggish. It is stifling, uncomfortable and I'm desperate to escape.

It's taken the staff at Leicester Royal Infirmary 20 minutes to dress me in a full suit of personal protective equipment, or PPE. This is the garb worn by health workers treating those affected by Ebola in West Africa. Since March, across Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, 18,500 people have been infected and almost 7,000 have died; 120 of them doctors, nurses and other medical staff. In afflicted communities, PPE is required clothing for all who come into contact with patients. It may be unpleasant to wear, but – with an effective vaccine yet to be developed – it's our best hope of controlling the disease.

Images of health workers in white space suits, goggles and surgical masks have become synonymous with the death and desolation caused by Ebola. Yet there is a lingering suspicion of Western medical practices in the towns and villages ravaged by the virus, and not everyone has been receptive to the rigorous levels of sanitation required to stop its proliferation. A key aim of the Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative, one of the Telegraph's Christmas charities (a partnership between the UKsupported Masanga Hospital in Sierra Leone and the Mentor Initiative, a British NGO), is to tackle this culture clash, by educating care workers about infection control. Their latest, and most innovative, project is a web teaching tool focused on PPE.

"Imagine a nurse who has always cared compassionately for her patients," explains the charity's Geoff Eaton.

"Someone who strokes their arm; mops their brow; talks to them as they cry. Suddenly, we're telling that nurse she can't do that any more. That, for her own safety, she has to keep her distance. Understandably, it's a difficult thing for her to get her head around." With this in mind, the Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative has teamed up with the Infection Surveillance Unit in Leicester and Immerse Learning, a London–based virtual teaching specialist, to produce the world's first animated training module for Ebola. Pairing video game technology The Masanga Ebola of the supported 25th annual Telegraph Charity more to donate, telegraph.charity with the WHO's most recent guidelines for sanitation, the programme aims to teach health workers to correctly don and doff PPE. I'm here to trial the software, and learn just how challenging it can be to avoid exposure to infection.

Two large tables in Leicester Royal Infirmary's lecture theatre are piled with the components required for PPE – masks; medical gowns; boxes of latex gloves; jumbosized bottles of hand sanitiser. There is a yellow industrial waste bin and a sheet on the floor marked "dirty", "semi–clean" and "clean" in three segments. Sue Davey, the unit's senior nurse, and her colleague Gillian Smith are demonstrating the PPE "buddy system", whereby one health worker dons the suit with the help of another, who is also responsible for helping him or her to remove it safely.

"Putting it on is the easy part, it's taking it off that's dangerous," says Davey. "I've watched footage from West Africa in which you see doctors walking out of a hospital, ripping off their masks and wiping their hair and face with contaminated hands. It's instinctive. But that's how people die."

First on is a pair of disposable surgical scrubs, which are tucked into wellies. Then the health worker dons gloves and a sleeved gown, which is tied at the back and secured by their buddy. "We use a gown instead of the allin–one suit because it's easier to take off," says Smith. "To remove the gown, you just give it a sharp tug downwards at the hips and then roll it up inside out. With the suit, your buddy has to cut it off – and that puts them at risk."

After the gown, there's a mask, which is pinched in at the nose to ensure it's airtight. Next, the volunteer puts on a hood and a green plastic apron, on which their name and position is written. To finish, there's a visor and another pair of (longer) gloves, to prevent any skin from being exposed. "It can feel a bit claustrophobic," admits Davey, "but you get used to it. Most health care workers wear it for around an hour at a time."

This pattern of steps is followed in Masanga's digital training module. Available in English and Krio, the most widely spoken language in Sierra Leone, it uses 2D and 3D animation to demonstrate how to put on the protective garb. There is an interactive hospital scenario in which users click on images representing what they would do next. If they make a wrong decision, the module reverts to the start. Though only in its trial phase (the software is being tested in Ebola–ridden zones), it is visual, intuitive and has huge potential to succeed.

"Teaching is scarce and inconsistent in West Africa," says Eaton. "Even basic things like washing hands are not common practice." For now, the module exists only on laptop, but the charity hopes to expand it to tablet and smartphone. Eaton hopes, too, that it will cover a range of procedures, from nursing a sick patient to burial. "For this, we need around £500,000 to fully develop the module."

Having watched the experts, it's my turn to try on the PPE. It's immediately apparent how heartbreaking it must be for doctors and nurses unable to comfort dying patients – as the cumbersome suit makes communicating incredibly difficult. I feel less like a caring volunteer; more like a sci–fi film extra. Davey sprays me with an infrared glow gel, designed to simulate the virus, to see just how much attention I've been paying when it comes to decontaminating myself.

She reads from a checklist. Apron first: cut off, rolled up and put in the bin. Davey, acting as my buddy, washes her hands, removes her gloves, washes them again and puts on a new pair. I remove my gown, wellies, visor and mask, then step into the "semi–clean" area. In between each step, we both wash our hands and replace our gloves.

Suitably clean – or so I hope – I let Davey shine an ultraviolet light over my scrubs to check that I've removed all of the glow gel. Horrifyingly, I haven't; there is a smear across my face (from when I rubbed my head after removing the visor) and an almost–invisible splodge on my neck. "In real life, anything we think might be infected would be washed with sodium hypochlorite [a disinfectant] – and you'd cut off your scrubs and shower," says Smith. "But I'm afraid you'd have failed the training. It's a lot more challenging than it looks."

With the roll–out of the virtual module planned within months, the team at Masanga hope to spread awareness and expertise that could, ultimately, prevent Ebola from devastating yet more communities. By turning essential skills into a learning experience, this, they believe, could be one of Britain's most valuable contributions in the fight against infection.

"This is our opportunity to change things before Ebola really spirals out of control," says Eaton.

Ebola Latest: Page 22

The Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative is one of the organisations supported by the 25th annual Telegraph Christmas charity appeal. For more information or to donate, visit telegraph.co.uk/ charity

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141226eacq0005f


News
Pope denounces Isil's violence as he pleads for safety of children
Josephine McKenna
492 words
26 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
3
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
POPE FRANCIS used his Christmas Day message to condemn the "brutal persecution" of Christians and other religious and ethnic groups in Iraq and Syria.

Delivering his traditional "Urbi et Orbi" ("to the city and the world") message, the Pope called for peace in the Middle East, with particular concern for "our brothers and sisters" in Iraq and Syria.

The Vatican estimated that 80,000 gathered in St Peter's Square to hear the address. It came at the end of a year in which the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) persecuted minorities in Iraq and Syria.

Speaking from the central balcony of St Peter's Basilica, the Pope said Christians and other ethnic and religious groups "for too long now have suffered the effects of ongoing conflict" and "brutal persecution".

"May Christmas bring them hope," he said of exiles and refugees in Iraq and Syria. "May indifference be changed into closeness and rejection into hospitality, so that all who now are suffering may receive the necessary humanitarian help to overcome the rigours of winter, return to their countries and live with dignity."

He made a plea for the children of the world affected by war, persecution and abuse, and deprived of life through abortion.

"My thoughts go out to all the children today who are killed and mistreated, be it those even before they are born who are deprived of the generous love of their parents and buried in the egoism of a culture that does not love life," he said.

"Also those children who are displaced because of wars and persecutions, abused and exploited before our eyes and with our silent complicity, children massacred under bombings even where the Son of God was born. Today their helpless silence cries out under the sword of so many Herods. There are many tears this Christmas with the tears of baby Jesus."

Before celebrating Mass at the Vatican on Christmas Eve, the Pope made a telephone call to Christian refugees in a camp in Ankawa near Erbil in northern Iraq. "You are like Jesus on the night of his birth when he was forced to flee," he told them. "There was no room for him either, and he had to flee to Egypt to save himself. That means we are praying even harder for you."

The Pope called for action in Ukraine to "overcome tensions" and "conquer hatred and violence". He also called for peace in Nigeria and dialogue in Libya, South Sudan and in the rest of Africa, and urged action to save trafficked children or those forced to fight.

He expressed his thoughts for the families of the children killed in Pakistan and those suffering from Ebola in west Africa.

"May the power of Christ, which brings freedom and service, be felt in so many hearts afflicted by war, persecution and slavery," he said.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141226eacq0004k


News
Welby too unwell to give sermon
Edward Malnick
317 words
26 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
3
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
THE Archbishop of Canterbury was too unwell to deliver his Christmas Day sermon as a result of a "severe cold".

Lambeth Palace announced before the annual service at Canterbury Cathedral that the Most Rev Justin Welby was pulling out "with great regret".

In the Archbishop's sermon, the text of which was instead published on his website, he had planned to warn that Christmas was in danger of becoming a "fictional" and "naive" celebration that failed to address the reality of suffering in the world.

Rather than viewing the Christmas story "simply with a happy ending", those marking the festival "must truly face the state of the world" that Jesus was born to address, examining "the difference that He makes", he wrote.

Citing the Christmas Day truce in 1914, Archbishop Welby said the suspension of fighting 100 years ago now seemed to be viewed, wrongly, as having led to a happy ending. But: "The following day the war continued with the same severity. Nothing had changed; it was a one–day wonder."

Archbishop Welby, who visited Sierra Leone last week to meet people affected by Ebola, added that "disease does not have any truce". He said: "Today there is no Christmas truce in the Middle East, or in north–east Nigeria, where Christians are persecuted, with other minorities."

A Lambeth Palace spokesman said Archbishop Welby was suffering from a "head cold", pre–dating his trip to Sierra Leone, and had been "fully checked out" by doctors.

Match of the day? Truce overlown'

Historians have said that the First World War truce football match is being misremembered and "romanticised" and was not the organised game many believe it to be. Dr Iain Adams, from the University of Central Lancashire, said: "There wasn't a Christmas truce, there were quite a few Christmas truces going on at the same time."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141226eacq0004j


Business
Sharing society: pledging on the go lifts JustGiving
Christopher Williams
603 words
26 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
39
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Donation service grows as more sponsors shift over to smartphones

JustGiving, the online charity–donation service, is expecting its biggest ever festive season after it enjoyed growth in giving of around a quarter over the year. The company, which is run for profit, has seen charitable giving increase strongly in 2014 as a result of the recovering economy and the shift of its users to smartphones, increasing traffic to sponsorship pages. Visits are up roughly 50pc, accord to its co–founders Anne Marie Huby and Zarine Kharas.

The accelerating growth is expected to mean a donation pot for the year of around £365m, based on last year's total of £292m. JustGiving takes a small cut of each donation and in 2013 reported a turnover of £16.1m.

"Mobile has definitely driven growth because we are likely to end the year about 25pc up on last year in donation terms," says Huby.

"Our fundraisers are checking and updating their pages more frequently than ever before. That storytelling has always been the driver of this business and now you can do it on the move." JustGiving is also benefiting from increasing use of Facebook to promote charity efforts. More than half its traffic now comes from the social network, as fundraisers more easily tap their friends and colleagues for donations online.

The company has grown every year since it was founded in 1999, despite the dotcom crash, financial crisis and subsequent recession. While charities suffered in the recession as the Government cut its contributions, individual giving held up, at least online, says Kharas, a former investment banker.

JustGiving, owned by a small group of long–term shareholders, has been investing in technology throughout. It reported a pre–tax loss of £278,000 last year, compared with a profit of £5.8m in 2012, as it piled money into hiring dataanalysis technology and hiring the experts to apply it and come up with new ways to convince people to donate.

So far, they have more closely integrated JustGiving with Facebook to personalise the service. The aim is for fundraisers and donors to show them more causes that they might be interested in supporting.

"JustGiving is the place you share what you care about," explains Kharas.

"We've had several years of investment," says Huby. "We have very patient investors and every year we go back to our poor old shareholders and say here's another year of investment.

"We might match people who are more interested in particular cases with projects that might be relevant. We're doing a lot of work categorising causes and on how those stories can be told."

Kharas says JustGiving's mission is to act as the research and development arm of the charity sector, which she argues "is not and should not be as experimental as we are when it comes to new technology".

The company's success has prompted speculative suggestions in the City that a big online player such as Facebook could swoop to acquire it and its valuable databases of personal and transaction data, but Kharas says she has never received an approach.

"We're an unusual proposition in tech in that we're sustainable, profitable and we have the freedom to keep investing," she says.

As well as investing in technology, JustGiving is focused on overseas expansion, inviting more donations from foreigners and encouraging more overseas charities and corporates to use the service for charitable fundraising.

"If you look at the Ebola epidemic, people are giving to British agencies from all over," says Kharas.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141226eacq0001z


The Queen's 2014 Christmas speech: I am 'deeply touched' by medics fighting Ebola
By Telegraph video and agencies video source ITN
208 words
25 December 2014
02:19 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The Queen has described how she has been "deeply touched" by the "selflessness" of medical staff fighting the Ebola outbreak during her annual Christmas Day speech

The Queen[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/queen-elizabeth-II/] said she was "deeply touched" by the "selflessness" of medical staff fighting the Ebola outbreak during her annual Christmas Day speech.

The UK is one of a number of nations that has seen its doctors and nurses volunteer to help countries such as Sierra Leone in West Africa combat the epidemic.

The theme of this year's Christmas broadcast was reconciliation and the Queen also spoke about the 888,246 ceramic poppies placed in front of the Tower of London to mark the 100th anniversay of World War One.

The speech is one of the rare occasions when she does not turn to the Government for advice but is able to voice her own views.

The Queen's traditional message was produced this year by the BBC and recorded in Buckingham Palace's state dining room.

Earlier in the day the Queen attended a Christmas Day service at Sandringham Church accompanied by the rest of the Royal Family. [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/queen-elizabeth-II/11313084/Royals-arrive-for-Christmas-Day-service-at-Sandringham.html]

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141225eacp0028l


NEWS
Pope Francis says 'there are so many tears this Christmas'
By Josephine McKenna in Rome
766 words
25 December 2014
11:28 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Pope Francis calls for urgent peace in the Middle East in his 'Urbi et Orbi' Christmas message

Pope Francis used his Christmas Day message to condemn the "brutal persecution" of Christians and other religious and ethnic groups in Iraq and Syria, saying "there are so many tears this Christmas".

Delivering his traditional "Urbi et Orbi" ( "to the city and the world") message, the Pope called for peace in the Middle East with particular concern for "our brothers and sisters" in Iraq and Syria.

The Vatican estimated 80,000 gathered in St Peter's Square to hear the Pope's sombre message and many were in tears.

The message came at the end of a year in which the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant terror group gained large swathes of territory, persecuting minority communities in Iraq and Syria.

Speaking from the central balcony of St Peter's Basilica to the crowd, the Pope said Christians and other ethnic and religious groups "for too long now have suffered the effects of ongoing conflict" and the impact of "brutal persecution".

"May Christmas bring them hope," the Pope said referring to exiles and refugees in Iraq and Syria. "May indifference be changed into closeness and rejection into hospitality, so that all who now are suffering may receive the necessary humanitarian help to overcome the rigours of winter, return to their countries and live with dignity."

On Christmas Eve, Baghdad's embattled Christian community worshipped defiantly at the city's Sacred Heart church, as people remembered the darkest year in memory.

Blast walls shielded the church and seven policeman flanked the outside of the house of worship, in an indication of the government's fear of an attack on the religious groups by jihadists who consider them non-believers.

The worshippers paid tribute to the thousands of Christians displaced this summer in northern Iraq when Isil seized the city of Mosul in June and in August pushed on towards Iraqi Kurdistan, overrunning Christian towns on the Nineveh plain.

He made a heartfelt plea for the children of the world suffering from the impact of war, persecution and abuse – and even those deprived of life through abortion.

The Pope went off his prepared text to say the "helpless cries" of children were not being heard in countries affected by wars and conflicts.

"My thoughts go out to all the children today who are killed and mistreated, be it those even before they are born who are deprived of the generous love of their parents and buried in the egoism of a culture that does not love life," he said.

"Also those children who are displaced because of wars an persecutions, abused and exploited before our eyes and with our silent complicity, children massacred under bombings even where the son of god was born.

"Today their helpless silence cries out under the sword of so many Herods. There are many tears this Christmas with the tears of baby Jesus."

Before celebrating Mass at the Vatican on Christmas Eve, the Pope made a surprise telephone call to Christian refugees in a camp in Ankawa near Erbil in northern Iraq to express his support and solidarity.

"You are like Jesus on the night of his birth when he was forced to flee," the Pope told them during the call arranged by Italian Catholic TV station, Sat2000. "There was no room for him either, and he had to flee to Egypt later to save himself. That means we are praying even harder for you."

In his Christmas Day message the Pope also singled out those suffering in Ukraine and called for action to "overcome tensions, conquer hatred and violence".

He called for peace in Nigeria where too many people were suffering from bloodshed, being held as hostages or killed and greater dialogue in Libya, South Sudan, and other African countries, and urged action to save children who were made victims of trade and trafficking or forced to fight.

The Pope also expressed his thoughts for the families of the children killed in Pakistan and those suffering from Ebola in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea.

"I thank all who are courageously dedicated to assisting the sick and their family members, I once more make an urgent appeal that the necessary assistance and treatment be provided," he said of Ebola.

"Truly there are so many tears this Christmas. May the power of Christ, which brings freedom and service, be felt in so many hearts afflicted by war, persecution and slavery."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141225eacp001p5


NEWS
Pope Francis prays for refugees all over the world in Christmas Day message
229 words
25 December 2014
09:30 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Pope Francis focused his concern on those weeping in the world this Christmas, singling out refugees, hostages and others suffering in the Middle East, Africa and Ukraine as gave his annual Christmas Day message

Pope Francis focused his concern on those weeping in the world this Christmas, singling out refugees, hostages and others suffering in the Middle East, Africa and Ukraine as he prayed for hope and peace.

Anguish for children who are victims of violence, including in the recent terrorist attack on a Pakistani military school, tempered the pontiff's traditional Christmas Day message, which he delivered from the central balcony of St. Peter's Basilica. [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/religion/]

Tens of thousands of Romans and tourists crowded into St. Peter's Square to hear Pope Francis[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/the-pope/] deliver the "Urbi et Orbi" message. (Latin for "to the city and to the world.")

"Truly there are so many tears this Christmas," Francis said after noting all the pain and suffering in the world.

Referring to refugees and exiles, he prayed: "May indifference be changed into the necessary humanitarian help to overcome the rigors of winter."

The pope also thanked those courageously helping people infected with Ebola in Africa.

He prayed, too, that those in affluent countries, who are "immersed in worldliness and indifference," will experience a softening of heart.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141225eacp001gt


2014 in conspiracy theories
By Laurence Dodds
1896 words
25 December 2014
01:30 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Ebola is a bio-weapon designed by the US government. Rosetta was an attempt to make contact with aliens. The leader of Isil is secretly Jewish. We guide you through the headlines They don't want you to know

There is a saying in computer science: 'Never attribute to malice that which is adequately explained by stupidity'.

But in the world of global politics, that's just an easy way for the secret masters of our world to pull the wool over the eyes of sheeple.

Here, laid bare before the world, is the secret truth behind nine seemingly simple news events from this year. What you are about to read may change your life forever.

Actually, we cannot emphasise strongly enough that these conspiracy theories are almost certainly nonsense. None of the things below are true. You should not take them seriously.

Or should you?

*

1. The US government blanketed the South with fake plastic snow

Way back at the start of the year, the United States was swamped by a “polar vortex”[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/10552977/What-is-a-polar-vortex.html], flinging snow across even warm areas like Atlanta, Georgia. But not everybody takes snow at face value. A number of Youtube users came to believe that the federal government was using “geo-engineering” techniques to blanket the South with fake snow[http://www.ibtimes.co.uk/act-gov-meet-americas-fake-snow-conspiracy-theorists-1435094] . In some videos, bloggers take lighters to the snow only to find it does not melt – and also turns black.

But, as many meteorologists explained, this is normal. Snow often turns straight to gas when heated, and butane – the fuel for most ordinary cigarette lighters – leaves black marks on whatever it burns. Some Youtubers had reported smelling a toxic smell – but that, too, was probably the butane itself.

2. David Cameron covered up a gigantic Scottish oil find, then rigged the referendum

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en">I enjoyed seeing some Shetland ponies with two children who are on holiday here. pic.twitter.com/ZtbFG3xKp1[http://t.co/ZtbFG3xKp1]

— David Cameron (@David_Cameron) July 23, 2014[https://twitter.com/David_Cameron/status/491866761651060736]

On July 22, David Cameron and the Secretary of State for Scotland, Alistair Carmichael, made a flying visit to the Shetlands[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/scottish-independence/10985129/David-Cameron-becomes-first-prime-minister-to-visit-Shetland-in-34-years.html] . No advance warning was given for the trip, and only a handful of journalists were with him. Just days earlier, prospectors at the enormous Clair oilfield, 75km west of the islands, had discovered reserves larger and richer than anyone had predicted. The workers were immediately sent home on full pay and told not to return until after the independence referendum. But you won’t hear a word about it on the biased BBC.

Of course, that might be because there’s very little evidence for it all. But the meme that unionists were covering up a mammoth oil find which would skew the economic argument towards Yes, stoked by dubious Facebook posts and spoof press releases[http://www.buzzfeed.com/jimwaterson/secret-oilfields-of-scotland], spread through Nationalist cyberspace like a coal seam fire. A YouGov poll of 1,084 Scots found 42 per cent thought it was “probably true”.

That wasn’t all. After the referendum, many people – including the American feminist author Naomi Wolf – claimed the vote had in fact been rigged. On her Facebook page, Wolf claimed she had a list of 500 people who had not received proper ballot papers.

A pro-independence legal group called Lawyers For Yes went through the various claims[http://www.lawyersforyes.org/2014/10/05/jonathan-mitchell-the-suggested-grounds-for-judicial-review-of-the-referendum/], describing them as “an impressive collection of misunderstandings, conspiracy theories, and legal howlers…usefully collected by Naomi Wolf.”

3. The Virgin Galactic spaceship was sabotaged by NASA

First it was NASA’s unmanned Antares rocket, exploding just after launch[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/picturegalleries/worldnews/11194774/Nasas-Antares-rocket-explodes-seconds-after-lift-off-in-Virginia-in-pictures.html] . Then it was Richard Branson’s sub-orbital rocket plane[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/science/space/11215854/Virgin-Galactic-crash-worried-passengers-ask-for-refunds.html], killing one pilot and injuring the other. Coincidence? Not on your life.

Luckily, internet people were on the case. Russia, explained Agent Smith 2014, “probably managed to insert a space weapon into orbit disguised as a spy satellite.” Both ships, he noted, “were destroyed whilst in the rocket powered phase, which is when they are the most vulnerable to laser attack.”

Others had a different theory. “NASA has been stripped of funding by liberal-backed administrations,” said one anonymous user, “and liberal-backed companies led by tech giants are now entering the space race. I think it was probably sabotage.”

4. The comet targeted by the Rosetta mission was actually an alien spacecraft

For three days in November the world held its breath [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/science/space/11234216/Rosetta-mission-Philae-finally-spotted-on-comet.html] as the Rosetta space probe reached the comet 67P Churyumov-Gerasminko – and promptly lost track of its lander. The poor Philae craft had bounced on landing and ended up in the shadow of a crater wall where its solar panels could not catch the light. But did Philae have a hidden purpose?

According to an email supposedly sent by a whistleblower inside the European Space Agency, 67P is not a comet at all. Instead it is an alien object – possibly a spaceship – with “machine like parts” and “unnatural terrain”. The object had been emitting communications for years, and million-dollar mission to explore it was actually a secret attempt to make contact, said Scott Waring, the UFO activist who published the email. The ESA accidentally fuelled the speculation when it said the comet was “singing” with dolphin-like clicking noises[http://blogs.esa.int/rosetta/2014/11/11/the-singing-comet/] which scientists still hope to explain.

5. Ebola is a bio-weapon which Obama will use as excuse for martial law

Not long after the Ebola outbreak began, an article in the Liberian Daily Observer claimed that the virus was a weapon designed by the United States military to depopulate the planet. Soon, the usual suspects were claiming that the US Centre for Disease Control had patented the virus – and was ready to make a fortune from a new, exclusive vaccine.

Louis Farrakhan, leader of the Nation of Islam, said the virus had been engineered to kill black people specifically[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/books/11216881/Ebola-is-man-made-and-other-crazy-conspiracy-theories.html] . “If you are black or brown, you are being selected for destruction.” Meanwhile, Professor Francis Boyle, a scholar of biowarfare and international law at the University of Illinois, said: “This isn’t normal Ebola at all. I believe it’s been genetically modified…I think the people at the top know. Probably Obama too.”

What was unusual about this conspiracy theory was the extent to which its themes were taken up by the Republican party. Steve Stockman, a congressman from Texas, speculated that Obama was deliberately making America vulnerable to the outbreak so that he could later use “emergency powers to take over control of the economy”. A radio broadcaster, Rick Wiles, feared the President would use Ebola to “round up patriots” and set up “re-education camps”.

This was not so far away from the claims of fringe writer Morgan Britanny[http://www.rightwingwatch.org/content/worldnetdaily-pundit-obama-using-ebola-put-us-fema-coffins-impose-martial-law], who, pointing to a false rumour about Obama “quietly stockpiling” $1 billion worth of disposable plastic coffins[http://www.snopes.com/politics/conspiracy/femacoffins.asp], said: “My fear is that this has all been orchestrated from the very beginning. Maybe the current administration needs this to happen so martial law can be declared, guns can be seized, and the populace can be controlled. Once that happens – game over!”

The idea of using an artificial disease to induce a crisis is hardly new. This was the central plotline of the classic conspiracy thriller videogame Deus Ex, in which a global cabal genetically engineers a deadly disease so they can make politicians compliant by controlling their supply of the vaccine.

6. MH-17 and MH-370 were the same plane

The shooting down of Malaysia Airlines flight MH-17[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/ukraine/11234720/MH17-wreckage-finally-removed-from-crash-site.html] produced an embarrassing wealth of conspiracy theories. While widely blamed on Russia, the circumstances of the crash in territory held by Ukrainian separatists were initially murky enough[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/ukraine/11232683/Russia-says-MH17-was-shot-down-by-plane-missiles.html] for a million theories to emerge as to the actual culprit.

Immediately, many claimed the crash was a “false flag” – that is, a brutal act performed by one side but blamed on the other in an attempt to smear them. Chief suspect was the USA itself. Others focused on a resemblance between MH370 and the official presidential plane of Vladimir Putin (both are white with red and blue stripes), and a supposed confluence in their flight paths. The theory was that the USA or the Ukrainian government had tried to assassinate Putin himself and then blamed the fallout on their enemy.

But the most creative theory was the ‘same plane’ plot. Multiple people wondered if the plane from Ukraine could in fact be MH-370, another Malaysia Airlines flight lost over the Indian Ocean in March[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/malaysia/10876049/MH370-search-new-sightings-fuel-conspiracy-theories.html] . MH-370 was hijacked, some said, and flown to Diego Garcia, a British Island in the Indian Ocean hosting US military bases.

The plane was then used to set up the false flag in Ukraine, with a smattering of false passports over the corpses; theorists zeroed in on photos appearing to show “pristine” passports, and claims by Ukrainian rebels that some of the bodies were old. One particularly astute tweeted noted that “Illuminati might have been involved” because both planes were Boeing 777s – one of the workhorse airliners of the world.

7. Isil is a joint creation of Israel and the CIA, and its leader is secretly Jewish

Yes, you read that correctly: Isil's[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/islamic-state/] leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/middleeast/iraq/10948846/How-a-talented-footballer-became-worlds-most-wanted-man-Abu-Bakr-al-Baghdadi.html], is not even a Muslim, but a Jewish actor named Elliot Shimon trained by Mossad and the CIA to fabricate a convenient enemy.

That’s the theory, anyway. Non-existent documents supposedly released by Edward Snowden, the American whistleblower, say that British, American and Israeli intelligence worked together to create “a terrorist organization capable of centralizing all extremist actions across the world.”

This, obviously, is in service of the Israeli nation, because “the only solution for the protection of the Jewish state is to create an enemy near its borders.” The plan is to lure all the world’s Islamic terrorists into congregating under one umbrella, and then, presumably, drone the tar out of them.

There are even (fake) photos of al-Baghdadi meeting with US senator John McCain, who was beaten by Barack Obama in the 2008 presidential election. And all those beheading videos? Fakes, using actors and movie-style special effects. Mark Crispin Miller, a media professor at New York University, explains: “The ‘ James Foley[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/middleeast/iraq/11046097/Analysis-James-Foley-murder-was-Islamic-State-masterclass-in-the-power-of-the-jihadi-PR-machine.html] ’ (seemingly) beheaded in the video is simply not James Foley…neither of these two beheadings is convincing.”

Of course, instead of this nonsense, you could read Martin Chulov’s incredible story about how Isil was born inside a US prison in Iraq[http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/dec/11/-sp-isis-the-inside-story] .

8. Rihanna, Jay Z, Kanye West and Beyoncé are all members of the Illuminati

The actual, real-world Illuminati were a secret society founded in 1776 by a university administrator frustrated with the Church’s control over learning. The idea was to ape the Freemasons but without the expense, pushing a secular Enlightenment agenda in all areas of public life, but the society was routed in the 1780s by a government crackdown. Or was it?

The symbol of the Illuminati is the eye in the pyramid. Shawn Carter, alias Jay-Z, has taken the pyramid as a logo for his Roc-A-Fella Records label. His wife, Beyoncé, has frequently flashed a ‘pyramid’ hand gesture, as has Rihanna and Kanye West. And do I have to mention the baby, Blue Ivy? I.V.Y.? Illuminati’s Very Youngest[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/music/9001909/Why-Beyonce-named-her-daughter-Blue-Ivy.html] ? Come ON, people!

Full disclosure: this theory was communicated to The Telegraph via some very excitable teenagers convinced they have found the answer to all pop culture.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141225eacp000dy


In 2014 Britain became a nation paralysed by fear
By Dan Hodges
1111 words
25 December 2014
01:30 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
We choose how we want to see the world. Right now, we are choosing to see a world that scares us

Stop reading this article. Rise from your chair, go to the nearest window and look outside. What do you see?

Actually, wait a second. We’ll come back to that. Let me tell you what I saw when I got up from my own chair a few moments ago and looked out of my own kitchen window.

Outside I looked across the rolling expanse of the heath. Blackheath. To some of us it’s one of London’s great public spaces. To others there’s something slightly sinister about it. “You know why Blackheath’s called Blackheath?” people often ask me. “It’s because of the plague. It’s where they used to bury the victims of the black death.”

It isn’t. It’s called that because the soil under the heath was of an unusually dark consistency. But that’s by the by. I see a heath. Others see a mass grave.

Beyond the heath I could see the trees of Greenwich park. On a sunny day it’s glorious. When you stand by the statue of General Wolfe with the Queen’s House below and the towers of Canary Wharf exploding up in front of you, you are looking at one of the great views of London. But today was not a sunny day. The clouds were dark and low. The wind held the trees in an icy grip. The park didn’t look welcoming. It looked cold and a bit menacing.

We see what we choose to see when we look outside. And at the moment, when we look out the window, we are choosing to see a world that scares us. Collectively. As a country. As a people.

This was the year that we become an agoraphobic nation. The year that the trembling upper lip officially replaced the stiff upper lip. The year that fear became our constant companion; paranoia our trusted friend.

Once upon our time our motto was “Keep Calm And Carry On”. Today it’s “Don’t Go Out. The Romanians Might Get You”.

Conquest. War. Famine. Death. In 2014 the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse came to Britain and filled their boots.

400 million European migrants began swarming across our borders. Terrorists again tried to bring murder and mayhem to our streets. Food banks pulled 900,000 people back from the brink of starvation. Ebola threatened to breach the walls of fortress Britain.

Then there were the paedophiles and grooming gangs, the aggressive homosexuals, the sinister cabal of bankers and energy companies, the corrupt Westminster insiders, the nefarious media barons, the global Zionist conspirators, the pseudo-Stalinist EU autocrats, the chinky loving, poofter baiting, white van driving workers, the arrogant, out of touch hipsters, the callous, disability despising aristocrats.

Fear stalked the land. Or rather, fear defined the land. Fear of difference. Fear of change. Fear of fear itself.

Not that there is anything inherently wrong in being afraid. Fear can be a useful defence mechanism. It steers us from harm.

But fear becomes destructive when our flight reflex turns in upon ourselves. Or where it urges us to run, when we have nowhere to run to.

Much of what has scared us this year has been real. Immigration is increasing. Terrorists did try to murder and maim. Some families live in appalling poverty. Ebola is a cruel and deadly disease.

But we have always faced threats. This year we chose not to face them. We chose to turn our back on them, and hope they went away.

I’m bored of living in a scared country. Of being told every time I look out of my window that I need to see a cold and threatening place.

So why not make this New Year’s resolution let’s chose to live in a brave and confident Britain again?

I’m not talking about politics here. I’m talking about national psychology.

This year, let’s be brave enough to make a choice on immigration. Let’s have the courage to say: “Sorry, that’s enough. We’re full. We’re shutting the door”. Or, let’s have the courage to say: “Welcome. We need you”. And then let’s all get on with our lives, without this rubbish about migrants causing traffic jams, or people on the train speaking in funny voices.

Let’s be brave enough to make a choice on terror. Let’s have the courage to say: “We need to stop these lunatics. So if it means giving some guy in MI5 the right to look through all our Facebook pages if he wants, he can look”. Or, let’s have the courage to say: “We’re not giving up any our of rights or freedoms. Let off your bombs if you want. But you’ll never win”. And then let’s stop pretending were slipping towards Big Brother totalitarianism, or being corralled towards a Muslim caliphate.

Let’s be brave enough to say: “No, we don’t need tax cuts at the moment. We need to spend something extra on those who have fallen on hard times”. Or, let’s be brave enough to say: “I’m sorry, but no one owes anyone else a living. I work hard. I need to take home a little bit more of what I earn”. And then let’s stop pretending we are a country regressing towards Dickensian squalor, or a nation of benefit scrounging chancers.

Above all, in 2015, let’s stop being scared of our own shadows. Or each other’s shadows.

Let’s not see an England flag, and recoil for fear that it was placed their by a racist hooligan. When we look at a middle-class entrepreneur, let’s praise him for his business acumen, rather than attack him for dividing his community. If someone drives past in thier chauffer-driven Rolls, let’s wish them luck, rather than being intimidated by their success.

And once we’ve done that, if we like the country we live in, great. If we don’t, then let’s get out there and do something to change it. But either way, let’s stop cowering behind the curtains, terrified to go out into streets we pretend not to recognise, for fear of the monsters that lurk there, regardless of whether those monsters are real or imagined.

You’re out of the chair and by the window. You look out. Tell me, what do you see?

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141225eacp000dx


NEWS
Queen's Christmas message: only reaction to ceramic poppies was silence
By Edward Malnick
446 words
24 December 2014
09:00 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Monarch speaks movingly of her visit to the Tower of London poppy memorial and praises medical staff helping to fight the Ebola outbreak

The Queen[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/queen-elizabeth-II/] has spoken movingly of her visit to the poppy memorial commemorating those who died in the First World War.

In her annual Christmas message the monarch said the “only possible reaction” to walking among the poppies was silence.

The Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh walked through the memorial of red ceramic poppies in the former moat of the Tower of London in October,[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/queen-elizabeth-II/11166734/Queen-visits-Tower-of-Londons-sea-of-poppies.html] having insisted on seeing it in person. The installation, comprising 888,246 poppies, one for each British and Colonial death, was intended to mark the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the conflict.

In her message, recorded at Buckingham Palace, the Queen said: “The ceramic poppies at the Tower of London drew millions, and the only possible reaction to walking among them was silence.

“For every poppy, a life; and a reminder of the grief of loved ones left behind.”

In her review of the year the Queen also said she was “deeply touched” by the “selflessness” of medical staff fighting the Ebola outbreak. Teams of British doctors and nurses have volunteered in countries affected by the virus.

“I have been deeply touched this year by the selflessness of aid workers and medical volunteers who have gone abroad to help victims of conflict or of diseases like Ebola, often at great personal risk,” the Queen said.

The Queen, 88, recorded her Christmas message seated next to a table featuring separate photographs of her grandparents George V and Queen Mary and an embossed brass box. She wore a purple dress by Angela Kelly and a diamond and pearl brooch inherited from Queen Mary.

The box was a Christmas Day gift for those serving overseas in the First World War during 1914. It was organised by the Sailors & Soldiers Christmas Fund, created by Princess Mary, George’s daughter, and filled with a variety of gifts from tobacco for smokers to chocolate for nurses.

The Christmas address, which will be transmitted on both television and radio at 3pm on Christmas Day, is written by the Queen and usually has a strong religious framework, reflects current events and draws on her own experiences over the past year.

It was produced this year by the BBC and recorded in Buckingham Palace’s state dining room. It will be available on the Royal Channel on the YouTube website and will also be shown in Commonwealth countries.

The broadcast was filmed using 4K ultra-high-definition digital cameras.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141225eacp00001


NEWS
Lab workers report possible Ebola exposure
By Agencies
383 words
24 December 2014
06:21 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Technician at Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention may have been exposed to the deadly Ebola virus due to a laboratory error

A lab worker may have been exposed to a live sample of the deadly Ebola virus, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Wednesday, adding the accident is under investigation.

The technician is not currently showing any symptoms of the hemorrhagic fever, which has killed more than 7,500 people in an outbreak in West Africa.

However, he will be monitored for 21 days, the CDC said in its statement.

Infection with the virus, which causes fever, headache, diarrhea, vomiting and in some cases bleeding, typically shows up within 21 days after exposure.

"A small amount of material from an Ebola experiment" transferred from a maximum level four biosafety lab to a level two lab "may have contained live virus," the CDC said.

The technician, who has not been named, worked in the level two lab in Atlanta, and processed the sample.

"The material was on a sealed plate but should not have been moved" into the level two laboratory, where safety precautions are less stringent, the CDC said.

"We cannot rule out possible exposure of the one laboratory technician who worked with the material" there, it added.

However, it stressed that there was no risk of exposure outside of the lab or to the general public. None of the other workers in the lab are currently being monitored.

CDC Director Tom Frieden said he was "troubled by this incident."

"I have directed that there be a full review of every aspect of the incident and that CDC take all necessary measures," he added.

"No risk to staff is acceptable, and our efforts to improve lab safety are essential - the safety of our employees is our highest priority."

In July, the CDC acknowledged a pattern of safety errors, including two incidents earlier this year, in which workers shipped anthrax, flu, botulism and a bacteria known as brucella to other labs without proper precautions.

In one incident in early June, around 80 workers were potentially exposed to anthrax when samples were not properly handled and deactivated before shipment.

No one is believed to have been hurt in the mishaps.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141224eaco00565


News
Cameron ur£es a celebration of 'selflessness' this Christmas
Ben Riley–Smith
362 words
24 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
3; National
2
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
DAVID CAMERON has praised Britain's "Christian values" as he hailed the "extraordinary" selflessness of soldiers, nurses, doctors and aid workers helping those in need in his Christmas message.

The Prime Minister said over the festive period Britons should reflect on Christianity's principles of "giving, sharing and taking care of others" while remembering those "in need" across the world. Mr Cameron added: "This Christmas I think we can be very proud as a country at how we honour these values through helping those in need at home and around the world.

"On Christmas Day thousands of men and women in our Armed Forces will be far from home protecting people and entire communities from the threat of terrorism and disease.

"NHS doctors, nurses and other British volunteers will be in Ebola–affected countries, working selflessly to help stop this disease from spreading further.

"And British aid workers will be helping citizens to rebuild countries and communities afflicted by conflict and poverty. Here at home thousands of police and fire officers, paramedics and other emergency service personnel will be working hard to keep the public safe and well.

"Across the country volunteers and workers from charities and other organisations will drop in on the vulnerable and elderly so they are not isolated."

The message from Ed Miliband – who is an atheist – recalled the famous truce observed by soldiers in the First World War trenches. "What an extraordinary and unexpected event," Mr Miliband said. "We need the same sense of compassion in the face of the suffering and hatred that afflicts parts of our world.

"Our country faces a choice next year.

Let's choose generosity and inclusion. I hope you have a very merry Christmas and a peaceful new year."

Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister and self–proclaimed atheist, said the values on display in the story of Jesus's birth are "universal" and can unite "people of all faiths and none".

The Christian values of love, charity and hope expressed through the story were "universal, speaking to and uniting people of all faiths and none", he said.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141224eaco0006l


News
Christmas charity appeal total passes £380,000
82 words
24 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
2
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The Telegraph

Your donations have been pouring in to the Telegraph Christmas charity appeal, which runs until January 31. So far readers have given £325,872 – £93,508 to the Abbeyfield Society, £94,400 to the Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative and £137,964 to Medical Detection Dogs. With Gift Aid reclaimed, the total raised so far is £387,000. To make a donation, go to telegraph.co.uk/charity or telephone 0151 284 1927

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141224eaco0005u


Editorial; Opinion, Leading articles
An artist's eye for the light of Christmas
626 words
24 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
17
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
THE DAILY TELEGRAPH Established 1855

Rembrandt returned often to the scene of the shepherds' visit by night to the stable at Bethlehem. The National Gallery's current blockbuster exhibition of his late works includes several prints of the subject. In one, the Virgin, woken from sleep, is dazzled by the visitors' lantern. Her Child, wrapped against the night chill, lies beside her under the bedclothes. Just as domestic, and warmer in atmosphere, is a painting (detail, below) that was one of the first Dutch pictures to enter the national collection, in 1824. Taken to be a Rembrandt at the time, but more recently attributed to a pupil, it exhibits the master's readiness to place the solemn and the quotidian cheek by jowl. At one side of the dark canvas, lies the biblical focus of the scene, "a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord" as the angels had assured the shepherds. At the other side, out of the circle of lantern light, a boy holds a dog more used to guarding the flock from wolves.

As a meeting, the night scene is odd. Despite the shepherds' direction by the highest authority, the strangers in the stable are not made familiar to each other. The shepherds did not know Mary's name or that of her husband, Joseph. As for the baby, they knew his role: as the Christ, which means "Anointed", a translation of Messiah in Hebrew. They knew he was a Saviour, though not that his given name was Jesus, which has that meaning. The shepherds, equally unknown to the little family from Nazareth, had to take a lot on trust. Everything in fact.

The painter places Mary facing us in the light reflected from the Child. On our side, his back to us, a shepherd regards the child intently, with head bowed and hands raised in contemplation. Since he is anonymous, he stands in for us, as our eyes within the scene, like the burgherly donors who kneel so stiffly in devotional paintings from earlier centuries, as though, by being painted close to the divine, they had shot down a wormhole through space and time to the heart of the cosmos.

Rembrandt was possessed by the idea of light. Even his depiction of blind men (Jacob the Patriarch, Homer the myth–maker) and of dusky settings suggest their opposite – revelation wrought by light. Rembrandt wraps the milestones in the life of Jesus in darkness. The Late Works exhibition includes a print of Simeon taking the Child Jesus in his arms as "a light to lighten the Gentiles, and the glory of thy people Israel". But Rembrandt has the old man with his eyes closed. And at Bethlehem, the Light of the World hardly brings out of shadow the rough roof beams that shelter him.

No one needs persuading at the moment that much of the world looks dark. In Syria millions have fled, as the family of Jesus was to do, to escape the murderous soldiery of a tyrant. In the furthest East a madder tyrant's rantings out–Herod Herod. Little children in west Africa go homeless for fear of Ebola infection. None of this is a sight fit for the kindliness of daylight.

Death and distress were no strangers to Rembrandt, but he made his paintings out of light in darkness. Again and again he reworked the narrative of the life of Christ. Darker scenes than the stable of Bethlehem lay before the Child, but for a moment, caught by his brushstrokes, as the light from the Child catches the face turned towards him by the shepherd, our ambassador to the realm of light, the world is at peace.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141224eaco0002y


News; Front Page
Experimental Ebola vaccines are ruled safe
125 words
23 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; Scotland
1
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
TWO experimental DNA vaccines to prevent Ebola are safe, according to new research and may help contain the deadly disease.

The first trial of filovirus vaccines in Africa, published in The Lancet, shows a similar immune response in healthy Ugandan adults as reported in healthy Americans earlier this year. Doctor Julie Ledger–wood, of the US National Institutes of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said: "This is the first study to show comparable safety and protection of an experimental Ebola vaccine in an African population."

Dr Saranya Sridhar, of the Jenner Institute, Oxford, said: "The international response to the present Ebola outbreak is an example of the speed and purpose with which clinical vaccine development can progress."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141223eacn00076


News
Cameron's Yuletide thanks for Forces' brave 'selflessness'
180 words
23 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
2
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
FOR once David Cameron and Ed Milliband could agree on one thing: the courage of Britain's armed forces.

In his Christmas message to troops Mr Cameron said: "We are forever in your debt."

He said this had been a "momentous" year, citing the withdrawal of combat troops from Afghanistan and the markings of the D–Day landings and the start of the First World War.

In a video to be broadcast on Forces TV here and overseas, he told servicemen and women they were doing the country proud in the crisis support they provide, including help to tackle Ebola in West Africa as well as fighting Islamic State.

"Wherever you are, you stand for the same things: courage, selflessness, sacrifice," he said. "These are the values that link the deeds of British personnel over the past century and we, everyone in this country, are forever in your debt."

Labour leader Ed Miliband also thanked the troops for their "incredible courage", adding: "The whole of Britain is incredibly proud of you."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141223eacn0004l


2014 World News Review of the Year
By Our Foreign Staff
364 words
22 December 2014
06:53 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Ukraine's war, the rise of Islamic State of Iraq in the Levant, the Gaza conflict - it has been a year full of major news events. We round up the top 24 news stories

It has been a monumental year for world news, starting with protests in Kiev that turned violent, brought down the Ukrainian government and led to a war in the east of the country that was still raging at the end of December.

The story was expertly covered, chiefly by Roland Oliphant, David Blair and Colin Freeman, supported by award-winning photography from David Rose and video by Alastair Good.

In June, Iraq was thrown into further crisis as Islamic State in the Levant claimed the country's second-largest city, Mosul. The group controlled a swathe of territory across Syria and Iraq, declaring a "caliphate". Richard Spencer and Ruth Sherlock, our Middle East correspondents, brought you the Isil story from the start and reported throughout the year in dangerous and challenging circumstances.

The Gaza conflict in July shocked the world. Israel launched a devastating operation on Gaza after three teenagers were kidnapped by Palestinians. In seven weeks of bombardment, 2,200 people were killed - the vast majority of them Palestinians. In their coverage for The Telegraph, Robert Tait and David Blair conveyed the complexities and shocking human suffering of the conflict.

We are very proud of our coverage of all the major world news events this year - the denouement of the Oscar Pistorius trial, the disappearance of MH370, the deadly spread of Ebola, the US race riots - and hope that you, the reader, have been informed, enlightened and entertained.

Telegraph world news team: Harriet Alexander, Nick Allen, David Blair, Rob Crilly, Josie Ensor, Peter Foster, Colin Freeman, Barney Henderson, Keith Hoggins, Nicola Lacey, Aislinn Laing, Andrew Marszal, Damien McElroy, David Millward, Malcolm Moore, David Munk, Dean Nelson, Roland Oliphant, Jonathan Pearlman, Tom Parfitt, Tom Phillips, Mike Pflanz, Richard Preston, Julian Ryall, Henry Samuel, Raf Sanchez, Ruth Sherlock, Philip Sherwell, Richard Spencer, Alex Spillius, Nick Squires, Robert Tait, Peta Thornycroft, David Wastell, Jessica Winch, Bruno Waterfield

Graphic by Jack Kempster

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141222eacm002p9


'Before Charlie, we had no quality of life'
By Judith Woods
1435 words
22 December 2014
01:44 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Medical Detection Dogs have provided Sam Sutcliffe with a canine companion who has changed her life by alerting her to frequent blackouts

Imagine, if you can, preparing dinner in your kitchen then suddenly collapsing and plunging to the floor in a shower of broken crockery. Or shopping with friends and keeling over, unconscious, into a rail of dresses in Monsoon. How might your friends react if you fell face first onto a tray of hot drinks in a café and couldn’t be brought round for an hour or more? And what sort of childhood would your nine-year-old have, if she found you every other day in a crumpled, unresponsive heap at the bottom of the stairs?

For Sam Sutcliffe, her husband Gary and daughter Lydia, this was their unpredictable daily existence until earlier this year, when Charlie, a good-natured black Labrador entered their lives, thanks to the Medical Detection Dogs charity.

“Before Charlie we had no quality of life,” says Sam, 39, who was marketing manager at the University of Wolverhampton before ill-health forced her to retire early. “My health was so bad and my blackouts so frequent and unpredictable that I had to give up my car, my career and my freedom.

“At work, I couldn’t be trusted to walk the length of a corridor without losing all power to my limbs and sliding down a wall. At home, I could end up lying on the floor for hours if nobody was there to find me. I was literally housebound because I had no idea when I might collapse so we never did anything together as a family.”

As she perches, pretty and petite, on the sofa in her Shropshire home, it’s hard to grasp the terrible debilitating condition that has robbed Sam of so much. She suffers from a rare condition known as POTS, or postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome, a condition that causes episodes of semi-conscious blackouts several times or more a day.

In addition, she has severe HMS, hypermobility syndrome, which means her joints are floppy and she is plagued by such fatigue, pain, lack of co-ordination and muscle weakness she can’t pick up her own handbag.

“A cup of tea is about the maximum weight I can lift,” she says ruefully. “I once toppled into an industrial knitting machine when I was studying fashion at university and had to have my head pulled out before I was crushed.”

When Sam talks it is without self-pity. She was told she would never have children as no POTS patient ever has done so and so she feels blessed to have her daughter.

She admits she has felt incredibly low and lonely in the past; after a blackout she feels shaken and emotional. But those days are over and in acknowledgement, her hand reaches out to fondle the head of Charlie, whose heavy tail thumps with pleasure.

Since he arrived in September of this year, two-year-old Charlie has wrought a minor – a major – miracle, by alerting Sam before an episode and ensuring she reaches a place of safety. And most astonishing of all, he first signaled a collapse before he had had any training whatsoever.

“When I first went to meet Charlie, there was an instant bond,” says Sam. “He is quite large and I was initially concerned because I am quite slight and can topple over if I get nudged in a crowd, but he is the absolute definition of a gentle giant.”

It was during the first trial week together that Charlie intervened when Sam – unbeknownst to herself – was about to collapse.

“I was with the trainer who noticed Charlie had started licking my hand, forcefully and continuously, which was odd as he’s not a dog who normally licks,” recalls Sam. “The trainer advised me to sit down; five minutes later I had a blackout.”

In that first week together, Charlie pre-alerted Sam no fewer than six times of a POTS episode. On each occasion, she was able to get to a place of safety rather than falling down on the spot and hitting her head on the way. No one quite knows what Charlie is detecting but thereafter, he underwent formal, intensive training to hone his instinctive skills and has since become one of the 55 or so medical alert assistance dogs in Britain.

The animals’ superlative sense of smell has been harnessed by Medical Detection Dogs - one of three charities being supported by the Telegraph’s 2014 Christmas Charity Appeal - to sniff out and recognise the changes of breath that occur as a result of life-threatening conditions such as type 1 diabetes.

In addition, 15 cancer detection dogs are in varying phases of training to sniff out the changes in urine produced by prostate, bladder or urinary cancers and work is also ongoing to detect changes in the breath caused by breast cancer.

Each dog costs £11,200 to train and another £750 annually for upkeep; all money is raised by public donation as the charity receives no government support. For this reason the waiting list for a dog currently stands at three years.

Charlie is the first detection dog to be used for a condition like Sam’s; she was told at the outset there was no guarantee of success. “Nobody even knew if a medical alert dog could be trained to detect POTS,” says Sam. “The charity thought that maybe he could be taught to bring me a blanket or press an emergency button once I’d fallen down, but there’s no need – Charlie is the perfect early warning system.”

While there’s no cure for POTS – its cause is unknown, although current medical thinking is that it is the result of a viral infection that attacks the nervous system – Charlie has helped Sam manage her health so well, that she now feels confident about leaving the house.

“Having given up driving, I used to black out in the passenger seat and tip over onto Gary who was behind the wheel, which was very dangerous, but now I sit in the back with Charlie,” says Sam. “Since Charlie has been here, friends are much more relaxed about taking me places, because they know that Charlie will make sure I don’t collapse out on a walk in the woods and my legs won’t buckle under me when we’re out in town shopping.”

Charlie’s usual modus operandi is to lick Sam’s hand. If she fails to acknowledge it immediately – she knows she has between three and ten minutes before a blackout – he will nudge her and stare at her reproachfully, his eyes never leaving her face.

“After a while I was able to gauge how much time I had, so I didn’t rush to get somewhere safe, but I could see it was really stressing Charlie, so now I sort myself out straight away,” she says, rubbing his soft ears with affection. “If I try to climb stairs before an episode, he will literally block the way with his body to stop me placing myself in danger. When I lie back on the sofa, he puts his head on my leg and watches over me.”

Charlie has only ever once missed an alert, and that was only because he was asleep. Like a guide dog, he has access to shops and restaurants, and wears a smart medical assistance coat to show that he is a working dog.

He wears a harness attached to a belt round Sam’s waist because when she passes out, all muscle tone disappears and she would lose hold of a lead.

“It’s still early days together and I’m sure that more remarkable events will happen but I’m already safer at home and have more confidence when we are out which is beyond words,” says Sam, who has nothing but gratitude to the Medical Detection Dogs charity.

“Their support, patience and expertise has transformed my life. I’m still poorly but thanks to Charlie I am safe today, tomorrow and beyond. It’s the greatest gift I could ever have been given. I only wish more people could have this amazing chance.”

The Telegraph’s Christmas Appeal[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/telegraphchristmasappeal/] is supporting The Abbeyfield Society, Medical Detection Dogs and The Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative. For more about these charities, and details of how to donate to The Telegraph Christmas Charity Appeal, go to telegraph.co.uk/charity or call 0151 284 1927

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141222eacm0012x


News
EBOLA DEATH TOLL CLIMBS IN WORST-HIT COUNTRIES
61 words
21 December 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
3; National
30
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
WORLD WATCH

The death toll from Ebola in the three worst-affected countries in West Africa has risen to 7,373 among 19,031 cases known to date there, the World Health Organisation said. Nearly 500 people had died in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone since figures were issued on Dec 17.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141221eacl0007b


News
UK RESERVISTS IN SIERRA LEONE TO FIGHT EBOLA
86 words
21 December 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
1; National
4
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
NEWS IN BRIEF

The first British reservists have flown to Sierra Leone to help tackle the Ebola outbreak.

The 16 UK reserves and 100 of their regular counterparts left RAF Brize Norton alongside members of the Canadian military yesterday morning, the Ministry of Defence said.

The personnel were due to take over from clinicians attached to 22 Field Hospital, who have been deployed since October, manning the 12-bed facility reserved to treat healthcare workers with Ebola.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141221eacl0005a


News
Welby: the death of my child shows that life is precious
JOHN BINGHAM
892 words
21 December 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
1; National
12
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
THE ARCHBISHOP of Canterbury has spoken about the tragic death of his first child in a car accident, saying the loss is a "constant reminder of the uncertainty of life".

The Most Rev Justin Welby, whose daughter Johanna was killed when she was less than a year old, suggested that he made a concerted effort to mark the anniversary of her death in order to prevent the day from "attacking" him each year. However, the Archbishop disclosed that he never attempts an answer to the question of why a good God would allow suffering to hap-pen, apart from pointing out that Jesus Christ "died on the cross as a young man, unjustly, unfairly".

In an interview on BBC Radio 4's Desert Island Discs, Archbishop Welby also warned the Church that Christians will never be listened to if they come across as "holier than thou". He acknowledged that the revelation that the Church owned a stake in Wonga while attacking payday lenders showed how it constantly risked "coming a cropper" when it chose to get involved in politics.

He also insisted the Church must accept the role religion has played in causing wars, and spoke of his shock at the inhumanity of which people are capable in the name of religion.

The Archbishop spoke with emotion about the death of Johanna, who was seven months old when she was killed 1983. His wife Caroline was in the passenger seat, being driven through Paris, while Johanna was on the back seat in a carrycot.

"I was finishing off some work in Paris and Caroline set off with a friend, someone else was driving and they had a car crash," he said.

"We went up and found Johanna was in hospital and she died five days later.

"It's just the constant reminder of the uncertainty in life. The only certainty in this life is Christ - everything else is contention."

Kirsty Young, the presenter, remarked how for many people tragedy was the moment they think "if there was a God he wouldn't let this happen".

The Archbishop, who went on to have five other children with his wife, replied: "Yes that's absolutely true - and you find that a huge number of people say, 'That was the moment where I found God.'"

Speaking having just returned from a visit to Sierra Leone, he added: "It is extraordinary - I was being asked in Sierra Leone: 'Why ebola? Why is this happening?' "I never try and give answers except to point to the Christ who died on the cross as a young man, unjustly, unfairly."

Talking about anniversaries of his daughter's death he said: "The thing is to celebrate the person, to remember them with love, to remember what they gave and what you gave them.

"In other words, attack the day so it does not attack you."

The Archbishop's taste for politics was displayed in his choice of luxury item - a box set of the television series The West Wing, set in the White House - and his book, Edward Gibbon's History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.

His musical choices displayed an eclectic taste ranging from choral works such as John Taverner's God is With Us to In the Jungle the Mighty Jungle, which he said he sings to distract family members during card games.

His tracks also included You'll Never Walk Alone, which he choose in tribute to the city of Liverpool where he was the cathedral Dean. In the interview he disclosed that his earliest memory was of seeing Sir Winston Churchill cry.

The Archbishop, whose mother Jane Portal had once been Churchill's personal secretary, told how she took him as a three-year-old boy to have tea with the former wartime prime minister.

He said: "I remember a very, very old man and he cried. I don't know why. And because he cried, I cried. And then we sat and had tea."

He added: "I've talked to [my mother] about it and she said 'oh, he cried quite a lot'."

Asked whether it "boggled" his mind what humanity was capable of in the name of religion, he agreed, adding: "My experience is that in many conflicts religion is a good and simple hook to hang extremely complex conflicts on.

"The trouble is, the more you use the hook, it becomes the reality. In the end it becomes the underlying reality.

"We have to be realistic about the failures of the Church, but also confident in the love and the light and the truth of Christ."

Discussing his ability as Archbishop to "bend the ear of power", Young pointed to the Wonga debacle, remarking that it illustrated that "when the Church tries to become involved it very easily can come a cropper".

He replied: "Oh, totally. It does that, especially if we come across as holier than thou.

"When we do [get involved] we have to do it with both the passion of Christ and a deep sense of humility at our own failure and weakness

"I cannot speak to people without being aware of my own sin, my own failure and of the failure of the Church."

Comment: Page 27

Editorial Comment: Page 25

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141221eacl0004l


Features
RADIO
GILLIAN REYNOLDS
1734 words
20 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
66,67
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
GILLIAN REYNOLDS NEW YEAR'S WEEK PICKS

SATURDAY

Jazz Line–Up

Radio 3, 6.00pm

Grammy award–winning pianist, composer and arranger Alan Broadbent in session with the Mark Nightingale Big Band. Broadbent – who's worked with such legends as Woody Herman, Johnny Mandel and Charlie Haden – is on piano. Claire Martin presents.

It's the weekend for looking back. In Jazz Record Requests (Radio 3, 5.00pm) Alyn Shipton looks back at the year, spotting new bands to follow, remembering big gigs and some of the stars who are no longer with us.

Graham Norton (Radio 2, 10.00am) offers his "best of" list, choosing interviews with Angela Lansbury, Bette Midler, Kathleen Turner, Conchita Wurst (that bearded lady who won Eurovision), Martin Freeman and Roger Moore. (For more of Moore, see Private Passions, Sunday.)

The Craig Charles Funk and Soul Show (6 Music, 6.00pm) sums up his History of Women in Funk and Soul, recalling a session with Amy Winehouse and more recent chats with Beverley Knight and Lisa Stansfield.

Radio 2 repeats its recent world exclusive What Macca Did Next: the Decade with Wings (4.00pm) Paul McCartney talking to Johnnie Walker about the post–Beatles year when he moved to Scotland and formed Wings, with the pick of topnotch players and, controversially, his wife Linda among them.

Sketchorama Extra (Radio 4 Extra, 10.00pm) is an hour from the best new sketch groups of 2014. Hitherto hidden gems are promised.

SUNDAY

Private Passions

Radio 3, noon

Roger Moore is Michael Berkeley's guest, talking about being James Bond (seven times, more than anyone else), Simon Templar in The Saint on ITV, and before that being an extra in the 1945 film Caesar and Cleopatra. His private passions? Opera and music for strings.

On The Early Music Show (Radio 3, 2.00pm) Lucy Skeaping and historian Joanne Crosby track the ancient custom of wassailing, going way back to old Norse times, evolved into a Christmas tradition.

There are two jewels in Radio 4 Extra's schedule today. At 9.00am The Snow Queen, Berlie Doherty's memorable Radio 4 version from long ago, with Diana Rigg in the title role and Dirk Bogarde as narrator. At 1.30pm there's Alan Bennett's The Lady in the Van, the true story of how Miss Shepherd parked her van alongside Alan Bennett's house in Camden Town and took residence in his life for 15 demanding years thereafter.

Maggie Smith has played her from the start, on stage, on Radio 4 in 2009 and soon for BBC television.

News Review of the Year (Radio 4, 10.00pm) recalls the dramas, tragedies, elations, panics and mysteries of the past year with Sarah Montague. Ukip's rapid rise, the Ebola outbreak, that Scottish referendum, the World Cup, those wars in Gaza, Syria, Crimea. What long shadows each of them already casts.

MONDAY

Schubert's Winter Journey

Radio 4FM, 9.45am

Ian Bostridge tenor and scholar, now Oxford's Humanitas Professor of Classical Music, explores the song cycle he has performed over a hundred times, Franz Schubert's settings of 24 poems by Wilhelm Muller, a landscape of life and love.

The new Woman's Hour daily serial (Radio 4, 10.45am) is the latest from cookery writer Nigel Slater, Eating for England, successor to his bestselling autobiographical Toast (which also made wonderful radio). Dramatised by Sarah Daniels, it stars Julian Rhind–Tutt as Slater, Celia Imrie as Aunt Elvie, Adrian Scarborough as Tony and Isaac Whitmore as young Nigel. It begins at the bleak Christmas after his mother's death. Produced by Polly Thomas for independents Somethin' Else.

This Farming Life (Radio 4, 11.00am) comes from Charlotte Smith, a familiar voice on Farming Today, reporting now from Sedgemoor market, the heart of last year's floods, as she looks back with farmers at an autumn full of real–life agricultural reckonings in Somerset.

Fans of fantasy fiction won't want to miss Neil Gaiman and Dirk Maggs in Conversation (Radio 4 Extra, 11.00am). Maggs, rock drummer turned radio Light Entertainment maestro, wrote to Gaiman in 1992, wanting to get Gaiman's cult Sandman comic onto radio. That didn't exactly happen but a friendship was born and out of it came last year's Radio 4 & Radio 4 Extra's sparkling Neverwhere and Gaiman's collaboration with Terry Pratchett, Good Omens, which has just finished on Radio 4

TUESDAY

The Forum: Self Control

World Service, 9.06am

How long will we sit patiently to get something we want? (In my case, much longer than I used to since patience grows in parallel with experience.) Quentin Cooper, esteemed science broadcaster, looks at the neurological evidence for why we develop self control. He talks to Professor Walter Mischel, who decades ago developed the most–famous exercise in delayed gratification – the Marshmallow Test, and also to neurologist Dr Lesley Fellows and Mitu Khandaker–Kokoris, games developer who builds in challenges to willpower as well as skills.

In UK Confidential 1985 and 1986 (Radio 4, 11.00am) Martha Kearney looks at newly released secret government files from the mid–Eighties when the bitter miners' strike came to an end, Mikhail Gorbachev became Soviet leader, talks began between the USSR and the USA on arms limitation, Aids began to be recognised and a row between Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and Defence Secretary Michael Heseltine, complete with leaks and whispers, rocked 10 Downing Street. These papers show how all such were viewed by government and, with access to the prime minister's personal correspondence plus the minutes of top secret meetings and phone calls, reveal perilous passages. In the studio are Michael Heseltine; Roy Hattersley, then Labour's Shadow Chancellor; Charles Powell, then Thatcher's private secretary; and Channel 4's political correspondent at the time, the formidable Elinor Goodman.

NEW YEAR'S EVE

5 Live Formula 1: Review of the Year

Radio 5 Live, 9.00pm

Lewis Hamilton and Nico Rosberg talk frankly about their dramatic year, one that saw them go from best friends to bitter enemies as they battled for the Formula 1 world title. The final race in Abu Dhabi just weeks ago settled it with Hamilton as winner and Rosberg being gracious in defeat. As, in the past, I have grumbled that motor racing on radio sounds like bluebottles in a jam jar, I realise this may seem an odd choice for New Year's Eve listening. But as the year has rolled by I've become attached to the 5 Live team's reporting, for its clarity, warmth and reliability. I even understand the complications of the tyres these days.

What Does the K Stand for? (Radio 4, 6.30pm) is a second series of unusual and touching sitcoms, co–written by Jonathan Harvey and comedian Stephen K Amos, based on Amos's growing up in Eighties South London. Amos plays himself, with Shaquille Ali–Yebuah as his younger self. It's rueful and reflective as well as funny.

The Rivals (Radio 4, 11.30am) brings back Inspector Lestrade (played by James Fleet), the fictional Scotland Yard man so often left standing by Sherlock Holmes. These latest chapters from his "memoirs", chronicling triumphs of Holmes's rivals, begin with a horrific train crash where the driver of the train swears the light was green but the signalman swears it was red. Blind (but uncannily perceptive) detective Max Carrados is on the case.

NEW YEAR'S DAY

War and Peace

Radio 4FM, from 9.00am

John Hurt and Simon Russell Beale star in this Radio 4 blockbuster of Tolstoy's epic novel. It follows the fortunes of three Russian aristocratic families during the Napoleonic wars, the story shifting between past and present as it reflects life at every level of society. The adaptation is by Timberlake Wertenbaker and it begins with a lively dinner party at the Rostov family home. The talk is of inheritance but soon turns to the army and the war. Apart from occasional breaks for news (and the latest from The Archers), this is a 12–hour stint. Celia de Wolff directs for independents Pier Productions.

New Year's Day Concert from Vienna (Radio 3, 10.15am) brings Zubin Mehta to the podium for the fifth time. The first half of this is also on BBC Four, the second on BBC Two but why budge from the radio? Even though it's treacle–toned Petroc Trelawny presenting, the music will be magical.

Frank Sinatra: the Dream Concert (Radio 2, 5.00pm) opens this network's Sinatra Season, marking the centenary of the singer's birth. Barry Manilow chooses a "dream" concert, recordings of Sinatra's live performances in New York, New Jersey, Japan, Dallas, Detroit and, of course, Las Vegas. Expect many Sinatra classics, Witchcraft to the inevitable My Way. From independents Broadcast International.

FRIDAY

Correspondents' Look Ahead

Radio 4, 8.00pm

Mark Mardell chairs the customary round–table discussion yet there's a significant difference this year. With him are Lyse Doucet, chief international correspondent; China editor Carrie Gracie; diplomatic correspondent Bridget Kendall; and business editor Kamal Ahmed. All people whose judgments are worth hearing. That's just as well since 2015 promises many challenges. Such as? Russia, its relationship with Ukraine and how it will affect the rest of Europe; what to do about Isil's activities in Iraq and Syria; how best to stop the spread of Ebola, or how to respond to China's combative stance on Hong Kong. Plus our own general election in May. Lots to discuss, only 50 minutes to cover it all.

The History of Titus Groan (Radio 4 Extra, 10.00am) comes in the 2011 Radio 4 version of Mervyn Peake's enthralling fantasy of good and evil, starring Miranda Richardson, James Fleet and Tamsin Greig. First of six one–hour episodes. (I wonder what happened to the earlier version, in which young Sting starred. Surely it hasn't been wiped?)

Tom Ravenscroft (6 Music, 7.00pm) features a repeat performance (they're all over the BBC at the moment) of The Philharmonic Presents…, the one with singersongwriter John Grant. If your ear was taken by John Grant's Songs from a Dark Place last week, about the shortest day of the year and Iceland's new creativity, this one's broader canvas will delight.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141220eack0008o


Business
Germans look on the bright side of lacklustre economy
190 words
20 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
34
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
GERMAN consumer sentiment has hit its highest level in eight years as shoppers feel more upbeat about Europe's largest economy going into 2015, writes Elizabeth Anderson.

Market research group GfK said its forward–looking indicator rose to 9.0 going into January from 8.7 in December, the highest reading since December 2006.

"Consumers apparently assume that the period of economic weakness in Germany will pass and the domestic economy will return to growth," GfK said.

The reading is based on a survey of around 2,000 Germans' expectations of pay and the economy as well as their willingness to spend money.

But the research group warned that concerns about instability in Ukraine, Syria and Iraq and the Ebola outbreak continued to drag on the economy.

Germany has struggled to regain momentum since narrowly avoiding recession in the summer. Factories posted a meagre rise in output last month as the slumping euro failed to lift exports.

Industrial production grew by just 0.2pc in October on a month earlier, falling short of the 0.3pc growth expected by economists.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141220eack00064


Features
IS CUBA READY FOR A NEW REVOLUTION?
Harriet Alexander
1376 words
19 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
21
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
As the island dictatorship announces a historic rapprochement with Washington, does it risk simply becoming a soulless outpost of the US, asks Harriet Alexander

Celio Roques wears his patriotism proudly. A veteran of the Bay of Pigs invasion, he fought alongside Fidel Castro, Che Guevara and Camilo Cienfuegos, and has a treasure trove of anecdotes to prove it: how Fidel rallied his troops; how Che was very serious; and how the cheeky Cienfuegos repeatedly stole Che's cigars to wind him up. And 50 years after fighting alongside Cuba's revolutionary leader, Mr Roques's fervour endures.

"If I could die tomorrow and give Fidel an extra decade of my life, I would," he told me recently, as we drove through the marshy coastal plains in the south of the island, past the site where America staged its disastrous attempted invasion in 1961. But even Mr Roques, an economist before he became a taxi driver, knew that change would have to come, sooner or later. "Fidel's big mistake was not opening up in 1989," he said sadly. "That was the moment. But our economy is ruined. Our country is dying."

This week came the news that Mr Roques and many of his 11 million compatriots had dreamed of – the US and Cuba were re–establishing diplomatic ties and lifting some of the crippling restrictions on business, banking and travel. "We will end an outdated approach that for decades has failed to advance our interests, and instead we will begin to normalise relations between our two countries," said Barack Obama, the US president, addressing the nation live.

At the same moment, 100 miles off the coast of Florida, Cuba's 83–year–old president, Raúl Castro, brother of Fidel, was delivering a similar message to a spellbound public, who stopped their school lessons and gathered around neighbourhood televisions to watch. "We need to learn to live together in a civilised way, with our differences," said Mr Castro – sparking jubilation across the country, and the ringing of bells in central Havana.

Americans began excitedly debating how many Cuban cigars and how much rum they might buy with the newly instituted $100 allowance for tobacco and alcohol; Cubans, meanwhile, began imagining the hotels they would build, the restaurants they would open to cater for the anticipated influx of tourists. But if those most affected were taken aback, the Foreign Office was not. "We rather suspected that this was in the air," said Hugo Swire, the minister of state, who in October became the first minister to visit Cuba in almost a decade. "It makes sense. We want Cuba to be a rehabilitated, integrated part of the international community. I think there is a generational shift – and a recognition that Raúl and Fidel are not young men any more, and things need to change."

Yet how much is going to change, and how quickly, remains unclear.

"We're not going to see McDonald's on the Malecon in the next few weeks," reckons Tim Cole, the British Ambassador to Cuba, referring to the coast road that runs through Havana. "But this is certainly a very significant change. And in some areas its impact will be felt quite quickly."

Last year a mere 170,000 Americans travelled to Cuba – a far cry from the pre–Castro era, when Frank Sinatra, Ava Gardner and Ernest Hemingway would bring hordes of their friends to the island for legendary nights of rum and revelry. Mr Obama has not lifted the ban on tourism to Cuba, but he has widened the net of people who can find an excuse to visit. Now anyone wishing to travel for religious reasons, professional meetings, sports competitions, journalism and humanitarian activities can do so.

Naturally, hoteliers are licking their lips in anticipation – especially now that Americans will be able to use their credit cards in the country, further enticing them to spend. Arne Sorenson, chief executive of Marriott hotels, has already made clear the chain's desire to expand into Cuba. And the leap in value of shares in the cruise industry giant Carnival (which climbed 3.59 per cent on the news) speaks for itself.

Is Cuba selling its soul? Will the island now be subject to an invasion of US cruise ship passengers, and college students on spring break bacchanals? Will it be smothered with a series of garish resorts like Varadero – a highrise mini Miami on Cuba's north coast, and the destination of choice for package tourists? Part of the magic of the island is its sense of being lost in time – a country where billboards advertise loyalty to Fidel Castro rather than the latest Nike trainer, and where the traffic is a brightly coloured convoy of 1950s Studebakers, Chevrolets and Oldsmobiles.

The risk now is that these emblems of a faded world, if they are preserved at all, will only form a theme–park attraction for the very tourists whose arrival spelled their doom.

Fortunately the historic centre of Havana is likely to be spared such a cultural revolution. It has been sensitively restored under the guidance of Eusebio Leal, whose job title is city historian – meaning that he is in charge of preserving and restoring the Unesco world heritage core. And Mr Leal, one of the closest confidants of the Castro brothers, is highly unlikely to allow his life's work to be squandered by the influx of tourist dollars. Havana, he boasts, has a unique beauty and magnetism precisely because it is "not in step with the times". And that is something, he insists, which has played "an important role in our national identity and our national character".

But away from the capital, the ripples from the changes in Washington may be felt more strongly. Many changes will be for the better. In Viñales – capital of the tobacco–growing region – the cowboy–hatted controllers of the cigarproducing farms will be rubbing their hands with glee at the prospect of new exports. In towns such as Mejico, once a booming centre of sugar production, farmers will be celebrating that they can finally receive agricultural equipment from America. Lack of modern tools has caused a crisis in farming, and Cuba imports around 60 per cent of its food.

But perhaps the biggest change for Cubans will be the agreement that America can bring telecommunications to a country where only around 5 per cent of the population have access to the internet. After all, it was initially illegal for them to access the internet; then they were allowed to use it if they paid extortionate prices for a computer in a top hotel – meaning that the vast majority of people were effectively offline. In March, Cubans were permitted to access email on their mobile phones, but not the internet. Now an estimated 300 internet cafés exist, but the cost of an hour online is equivalent to a week's wage for a state worker. Finally, the barriers to the web are set to be torn down.

With that, and every other creeping change, Cuba will doubtless face charges that is becoming little more than the 51st American state, or simply a pleasure pit for rapacious consumers from around the world. Yet Cubans are in no doubt that such risks are worth taking.

For them, the biggest threat is the threat of continued isolation. And they have had their hearts broken before. "Every time they have tried previously – Jimmy Carter in 1977; Clinton in the 1990s – something happened to stop the rapprochement," says Dr Manuel Barcia, a Cuban academic and associate professor of Latin American history at the University of Leeds. "But my feeling is that they are really opening the door this time."

There have already been encouraging flickers of the co–operation that may be to come. Cuba's recent contribution to the fight against Ebola, when it sent more than 250 doctors to West Africa, was a tangible sign of its growing collaboration with the world. After more than 50 years of isolation, we can now look forward to many more. For despite generations of hostility and mutual suspicion, this week's announcement will end up benefiting both sides, and corrupting neither.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141219eacj0001y


NEWS
Barack Obama gives end-of-year press conference: as it happened
By Jessica Winch
1988 words
19 December 2014
03:31 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
President Barack Obama says Sony made a mistake in cancelling The Interview during his final press conference of the year

• Obama says Sony made a mistake in shelving film

• Sony cancels The Interview release over hacker threats[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/11300487/Sony-cancels-The-Interview-release-over-hacker-threats.html]

• Is Cuba ready for a new revolution? [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/centralamericaandthecaribbean/cuba/11302041/Is-Cuba-ready-for-a-new-revolution.html]

20.02 Mr Obama has wrapped up the press conference and will soon be heading to Hawaii on holiday. Here is a summary of the key points:

• He said he thinks Sony "made a mistake" in deciding to cancel the release of The Interview, a satirical film about North Korea.

"I wish they had spoken to me first," he said. "I would've told them 'do not get into a pattern in which you're intimidated by these kinds of criminal attacks.'"

• Mr Obama said the US "will respond" to the hack but did not give details. He said North Korea appeared to have acted alone.

• Cuba will change as a result of the communist-ruled island's rapprochement with Washington, but the improvements will not happen "overnight."

• Construction of the Keystone XL pipeline to transport crude oil from Canada to the US Gulf Coast would only nominally benefit American consumers and workers.

• US blacks are better off now than they were when he began his presidency in 2009, but that the gap between blacks and whites remains.

We are going to leave the live blog here. We will publish all the latest developments on our World News[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/] page.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en">Number of reporters who questioned Obama on CIA torture report: Zero - pic.twitter.com/FYaiwBI5Sd[http://t.co/FYaiwBI5Sd]

— Matthew Keys (@MatthewKeysLive) December 19, 2014[https://twitter.com/MatthewKeysLive/status/546028360736833536]

19.25 Mr Obama says visiting Cuba is not on the cards. But he adds: "I don't know how this relationship will develop. I'm a fairly young man so I imagine at some point in my life I will have the opportunity to visit Cuba."

19.23 Mr Obama says the embargo has been "defeating" and he wants it to be pulled down. But this will not happen "immediately".

19.20 Mr Obama says it is not out of the question that Cuba could take actions in future that could be troubling for the US. But he says engagement means the US now has carrots, as well as sticks, that it can apply.

19.14 The next question is on Cuba. He says it would be unrealistic to "map out" where Cuba will be at the end of his presidency, but "change will come to Cuba".

19.10 Philip Sherwell in New York:

Just six weeks ago, after a Republican triumph in the mid-term congressional elections that owed much to the president’s poor job approval ratings, Barack Obama was facing questions about his relevance and criticisms that he had already “checked out”.

But today he has reeled off a series of achievements on the domestic front and internationally after a “year of action” and proclaimed that he‘s “energised and excited” for his last two years in office. This is more victory lap than sneaking out of the back door for Christmas in Hawaii.

19.04 Mr Obama says it would be even worse if producers impose self-censorship to protect somebody's sensibilities.

"I am sympathetic that Sony... was worried. I would have told them: 'Do not get into a pattern where you are intimidated by these kinds of criminal attacks,'" he says.

We cannot start changing our patterns of behaviour, Mr Obama says. But he doesn't give details on how the US will respond.

19.01 The first question is on the Sony hack. Mr Obama says the first step is to stop cyber attacks taking place. He says "we are not even close to where we need to be".

He says he hopes Congress will work on strong cyber laws that apply across the private and public sectors to prevent attacks happening in the first place.

"We cannot have a society in which some dictator... can start imposing censorship here in the United States".

18.59 Mr Obama says he is "energised" and excited about the next couple of years, and he will not stop trying to "make life better" for Americans.

18.57 He says the US is leading the fight against Isil, the fight to combat Ebola, and is addressing climate change.

18.55 Mr Obama begins discussing job growth in the US, wages, oil and manufacturing investment.

18.54 Mr Obama has begun with a short statement. He calls 2014 a "breakthrough year" for America.

"There is no doubt that... America is making significant strides where it counts."

18.52 Reporters have just been told Mr Obama will appear in two minutes.

18.48 Mr Obama's end-of-year press conference follows Russian president Vladimir Putin's annual press conference[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/vladimir-putin/11301484/Putin-signals-he-will-not-back-down-over-Ukraine.html] yesterday.

Mr Putin promised Russia would pull out of its economic downturn within two years and signalled he would not back down over the Ukraine crisis on Thursday, likening the West to a bloodthirsty opponent intent on “tearing out the claws and teeth” of the Russian bear.

The conference included a few bizarre moments - a reporter who appeared to be drunk asking a question about kvass[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/vladimir-putin/11301744/Putin-jokes-stroke-survivor-journalist-is-drunk.html], Russia’s fermented bread drink, and a woman who asked a question about parking in Moscow while clutching a toy crocodile.

18.43 We are still standing by for President Obama. We have a live stream running at the top of this article - please refresh the page if you are unable to see it. Or watch on the White House page[http://www.whitehouse.gov/live/president-obama-holds-news-conference] .

18.31 Right, it looks as though the press conference will be starting shortly

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en">Never seen White House briefing room so crowded. Obama probably not only one counting down the hours to his vacation. pic.twitter.com/MrWJvqWZAI[http://t.co/MrWJvqWZAI]

— Dan Roberts (@RobertsDan) December 19, 2014[https://twitter.com/RobertsDan/status/546009619693596672]

We can but hope.

18.15 Philip Sherwell in New York considers what questions the press corps may pose to President Obama shortly. Mr Obama is due to speak at 1.30pm ET (6.30pm GMT):

This is going to be quite the press conference at the end of a remarkable few days. The North Korean-orchestrated hacking of Sony and the restoration of ties with Cuba are likely to top the agenda.

But we can also expect questions on the Senate torture report; the fight against the Islamic State; his presidential decree to halt the deportation of four million immigrants; Russia/Putin; and race relations and policing in the wake of the Ferguson and Staten Island grand jury decisions. Plus of course the realities of doing business with a Republican-run Congress.

He is leaving the White House with his family later in the afternoon for their annual holiday in Hawaii. In fact, he may have to use the excuse that he has to finish his packing to bring this one to a close.

17.49 Nick Allen in Los Angeles writes:

Hollywood officialdom is finally speaking out about the Sony hacking scandal after a weeks-long deafening silence. In a statement Chris Dodd, chairman of the The Motion Picture Association of America, said the cyberattack was “a deplorable and despicable criminal act."

The statement was released moments after the FBI publicly confirmed North Korea's involvement. Dodd said the amount of information stolen by the hackers equated to "many times the volume of all of the printed material in the Library of Congress."

He also attacked media coverage of the crisis as "disappointing" for focusing on embarrassing leaked emails, rather than the larger issue that "cyber terrorists" had "violated a major company to steal personal information, company secrets, and threaten the American public."

17.35 If you want to send Mr Obama some Christmas cheer, you can sign an online card[https://www.barackobama.com/seasons-greetings-president-obama/?source=socnet_tw_OFA_20141219_bo_seasons-greetings-president-obama_seasons_1&utm_campaign=socnet_tw_OFA_20141219_bo_seasons-greetings-president-obama_seasons_1&awesm=ofa.bo_h22p&utm_medium=socnet&utm_content=20141219_bo_seasons-greetings-president-obama_seasons_1&utm_source=tw] :

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en">Send season's greetings to President Obama—you can even include a personal note: http://t.co/S7sdjc1ti3[http://t.co/S7sdjc1ti3]

— Barack Obama (@BarackObama) December 19, 2014[https://twitter.com/BarackObama/status/545969397496827904]

17.25 Five topics Mr Obama may cover when he takes questions on Friday afternoon (compiled by AP):

CUBA: The president on Wednesday announced a diplomatic opening with Cuba[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/centralamericaandthecaribbean/cuba/], lifting certain travel and economic restrictions. A broader, 50-year-old economic embargo on Cuba remains in place and can only be lifted by Congress.

The historic deal with Havana was negotiated as part of Cuba's release of American Alan Gross, who had been imprisoned in Cuba for five years. The deal also involved a spy swap. Cuba released a Cuban who had been in prison for nearly 20 years for spying for the United States. The US in turn released three Cubans convicted of spying.

Republican leaders have criticised the move[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/centralamericaandthecaribbean/cuba/11302523/Republicans-threaten-to-stop-US-embassy-opening-in-Cuba.html], though some Republican lawmakers favour increased ties to Cuba. Mr Obama likely faces questions about the spy exchange as well as prospects for change under the Castro government.

More cartoons from Adams and Bob[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/comment/getting-it-right/11171179/Telegraph-latest-cartoon-gallery.html]

SONY HACKING: The Obama administration on Friday formally accused the North Korean government of being responsible for the devastating hacking attack against Sony[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/11299732/The-Sony-hack-explained-in-60-seconds.html] Pictures Entertainment.

The FBI said in a statement it has enough evidence to conclude that North Korea was behind the punishing breach, which resulted in the disclosure of tens of thousands of leaked emails and other materials.

Questions persist about how the US might respond. White House spokesman Josh Earnest has said only that any response would be "proportional"[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/11302590/Sony-hack-Obama-considers-proportional-response-against-North-Korea.html] .

The hacking was believed to have been sparked by Sony's plan to release a comedy film, The Interview, starring James Franco and Seth Rogen as TV journalists recruited by the CIA to assassinate North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. The film's release has now been cancelled[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/11300643/Hollywood-incredulous-over-Sonys-unAmerican-act-of-cowardice.html] .

CAPITOL HILL POLITICS: Mr Obama will have a Republican-led Congress for the first time in his presidency when the Republicans take control of the Senate in January.

Both Mr Obama and Republican leaders say that creates opportunities for compromise on issues such as trade or taxes. But it's also a recipe for two years of confrontation. Mr Obama has his veto pen, which he has used only twice in the past six years.

RUSSIA: Mr Obama has faced criticism all year that he was too slow and cautious in responding to Russia's provocations in Ukraine. But the president's strategy of hitting Moscow with a stream of economic sanctions is contributing to the collapse of Russia's currency, as is the falling price of oil.

The question for Obama[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/barackobama/] is whether Russia's economic woes will persuade President Vladimir Putin to leave Ukraine alone. And what will the impact from Russia's currency troubles be on the rejuvenated US economy and European allies who have deep commercial ties with Moscow?

LEGACY: Obama still has two more years left in office, but he's already thinking about what he'll leave behind. Will his legacy be his health care legislation? A potential nuclear deal with Iran? Making traction on climate change?

17.20 Mr Obama's dismal year is ending on an upbeat note. He's unveiled a flurry of executive actions on immigration, climate change and US policy toward Cuba. That's after his party's sweeping losses in the midterm elections.

Still, the president faces big obstacles on Capitol Hill, where Republicans will take over next month. Foreign policy problems also persist in the Middle East and between Russia and Ukraine.

After taking questions from reporters, Mr Obama and his family will depart for their annual holiday in Hawaii. He's due back in Washington in early January.

17.15 Hello and welcome to our live coverage of US President Barack Obama's final press conference of 2014.

Mr Obama will likely face questions on Cuba, the Sony hacking and how he will work with the Republican Congress.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141219eacj004ed


FINANCE
German consumer confidence highest in eight years
By Elizabeth Anderson
290 words
19 December 2014
04:01 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Consumer sentiment is up as shoppers hit the stores for Christmas and looked to the new year with optimism

German consumer sentiment hit its highest level in eight years as shoppers felt more upbeat about Europe’s largest economy going into 2015.

Market research group GfK said its forward-looking consumer sentiment indicator rose to 9.0 going into January from 8.7 in December, the highest reading since December 2006.

"Consumers apparently now assume that the period of economic weakness in Germany will pass and the domestic economy will return to growth in the coming months," GfK said in a statement.

The reading is based on a survey of around 2,000 Germans, who give their expectations about pay and the economy in the coming months, as well as their willingness to spend money.

However, the research group warned that concerns about instability in Ukraine, Syria and Iraq and the Ebola outbreak continued to drag on the economy.

Germany’s economy has struggled to regain momentum since narrowly avoiding recession in the summer.

The country's factories posted a meagre rise in output last month, as the slumping euro failed to lift exports.

Industrial production grew by just 0.2pc in October[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11279494/Tumbling-euro-not-enough-to-save-Germanys-factories.html]on a month earlier according to official data, falling short of the 0.3pc growth expected by economists.

Earlier this month the Bundesbank slashed its growth forecasts for 2014, 2015 and 2016, halving its growth estimate for Europe’s largest economy next year.

The German economy is now expected to grow 1pc in 2015, half the Bundesbank had forecast in June, and 1.6pc in 2016.

GDP rose 0.1pc in the third quarter of 2014.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141219eacj001mj


Christmas at Abbeyfield care home
By Victoria Lambert
1062 words
19 December 2014
02:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Abbeyfield has launched an annual campaign to open its doors for six weeks to encourage older people who live alone to come and enjoy some food, drink and entertainment, completely free of charge. Victoria Lambert reports

The brightly decorated tree shines from a corner, the jaunty hats are on, and the residents of Abbeyfield House in Walmer, Kent are settling down for a convivial buffet lunch before a packed afternoon programme of Holy Communion, and visits from the choir of St Mary’s Church Walmer, and then the Great Mongeham handbell ringers and singers.

''I won’t get home till nine tonight,’’ confides a beaming Janet Stephenson, volunteer activity coordinator, dressed today in a festive red apron and Christmas tree earrings. ''We always have so much fun here; and Christmas day is a particular pleasure.’’

The small but sunny modern building, which offers 10 places for sheltered accommodation, is one of 500 homes across the country run by Hertfordshire-based Abbeyfield, one of the charities supported in this year's Telegraph Christmas Charity Appeal.

Residents can be aged from 55 upwards, but most tend to be in their 80s and 90s, and some have mobility problems. During the year, volunteers like Janet encourage visits from the outside community – whether it is members of the local pastries and prayer group at nearby St Mary’s, family, friends, or even local shopkeepers – like the butcher. ''It’s important to bring the outside world in,’’ says Janet, ''to foster the wider sense of community.’’

But at Christmas, Abbeyfield encourages outsiders to visit its homes – like Walmer – for themselves, not just for residents. According to the charity, latest figures show that there are 11.1 million people in the UK aged 65 and over, and approximately 500,000 of these will spend Christmas alone.

So Abbeyfield has launched an annual campaign to open its doors for six weeks to encourage older people who live alone to come and enjoy some food, drink, entertainment and even accommodation in some cases - completely free of charge.

For some houses, their social events might just be singing carols around the tree with mince pies and mulled wine, or some may lay on Christmas quizzes or three course meals. Whatever the activity, inviting older people into Abbeyfield homes is a way to relieve the social isolation, which 61 per cent of people said is even harder for them to cope with over the Christmas period.

Ken Greatholder, who lives in Leominister, Herefordshire, was invited to spend Christmas at his local Abbeyfield home last year. Ken, 53, who used to work at JCB, has a daughter, but explains that often she is working at Christmas, as she is a carer (for others) so he spends it alone. And last year he felt particularly low, having been diagnosed with lymphoma of the stomach.

''But I heard about Abbeyfield’s offer from friends,’’ he says now, ''and jumped at the chance to go. I was supposed to go on Christmas Day and stay until Boxing Day – but in the end, I was having so much fun, I stayed a week.’’ Ken was delighted to discover he had a private room with TV, and three meals a day and that the home ran a full programme of activities. ''We had all kinds of entertainment from singing carols to playing games. It was brilliant. And it really helped me – it made me forget about the cancer.’’

Back in Walmer, local vicar the Reverend Seth Cooper agrees that people need company at this time of year. ''It’s not just loneliness,’’ he explains. ''Sometimes, Christmas makes people think more about the past that has been lost. Memories and expectations are tinged with sadness. We can lay on events, but some people living alone lose the confidence to join in. And some will particularly miss the shared experience of Christmas with a loved one who may have died.”

But today, there is no sense of sadness in this lively room. All the residents at Walmer are looking forward to Christmas Day, when 25 – including friends, family and locals - are expected to sit down for lunch.

''We always have games,’’ says Janet, who has been volunteering here for eight years, ''and everything stops for the Queen’s Speech. Some people don’t want to go home afterwards; it is such a special day.’’

For resident 81–year-old June Bott, a former executive officer in the MoD, this will be her first Christmas at Abbeyfield as she moved in nine months ago. ''It’s such a lovely place,’’ she tells me. ''And for those of us who can’t get out, it’s lovely when the outside world comes to you.’’

Janice Garrett is having lunch today with her mother Hilda White, 95, who has been a resident for 10 years. ''The idea of Abbeyfield,’’ explains Janice, ''was to take the loneliness of old age away. Here, people are with others of their own generation and they share memories – like living through the war – which we can’t. They have constant companionship, but their own en suite bedsit rooms when they want some privacy.’’

However if they crave company, they can always join in with highly competitive games of Scrabble, sign up for a trip to the Bandstand in summer, or enjoy the weekly DVD afternoon. And of course, everyone meets in the lounge for Strictly Come Dancing on Saturday evenings.

Ken Greatholder enjoyed his Christmas last year that he became a regular for some months afterwards, volunteering and visiting residents. He won’t be back this year, however, as in the past six months he has found a new girlfriend, and intends to have Christmas dinner a deux. His cancer is also under control, and his prognosis is good.

But Ken is hugely grateful that last year – when he needed somewhere, Abbeyfield was there. ''I couldn’t have asked for more,” he says. ''Anyone in my position and worried about spending Christmas alone, should give them a ring. They’ll get you in – and you’ll love it.’’

* The Telegraph’s Christmas Appeal is supporting The Abbeyfield Society, Medical Detection Dogs and The Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative. For more about these charities, and details of how to donate to The Telegraph Christmas Charity Appeal, go to telegraph.co.uk/charity[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/telegraphchristmasappeal/]

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141219eacj0010e


News
Retail giants lift Wellcome Trust returns to £2.5bn
Marion Dakers
404 words
18 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
8
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
THE Wellcome Trust charitable foundation has generated £2.5bn in investment returns this year, lifted by its stakes in Chinese retail giants Alibaba and JD.com as well as a portfolio of stocks, properties and private equity.

The trust, which handed out more than £690m to medical causes in the year to the end of September, said its investments had returned 15.4pc in the period.

Wellcome's asset pile is now worth more than £18bn, despite not taking donations since 1946. The charity plans to spend £4bn on charitable activities over the next five years, up from £3bn during the last five.

It has contributed £2.8m towards testing a vaccine for Ebola this year and made a £27m investment in a new genome sequencing facility near Cambridge.

"Our internal investment team and external investment partners have again added significant value across the board, enabling us to perform better than global stock markets with considerably lower volatility," said Danny Truell, chief investment officer.

"Prospective investment returns are now lower, but with strength in breadth and depth across our investment team and the businesses and partnerships in which we invest, I am confident that we can continue to reinforce the trust's robust financial position."

The organisation has added £9bn through investment returns since the collapse of Lehman Brothers. Wellcome said this represented a return of more than 10pc a year, though Mr Truell has said he expects this to fall slightly in the coming five years. Wellcome has £5.5bn invested directly in equities, with the majority spread across 31 "mega–cap" companies. Its five largest holdings are Deutsche Annington, Apple, Marks & Spencer, Twitter and Microsoft.

The group has a track record of generating large returns from earlystage investments in fast–growing firms. As well as its Twitter investment, Wellcome's portfolio was boosted this year by stakes in the Chinese online commerce platform Alibaba, which was valued at $200bn in the biggest float in the world, and rival retailer JD.com, which floated with a value of $28bn on its first day as a listed company.

Together, these two IPOs generated more than four times the initial investment of $83.15m that Wellcome made three years ago.

The trust's £2bn property portfolio includes 400 buildings in South Kensington and a 50pc stake in the student accommodation group iQ.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141218eaci0000n


NEWS
David Cameron says Europe's block on sharing passenger data is 'frankly ridiculous'
By Matthew Holehouse Political Correspondent Brussels
770 words
18 December 2014
05:00 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Prime Minister warns that Brussels is puttting airline passengers' lives at risk with delay on legislation for sharing data

David Cameron has accused Brussels of putting airline passenger lives at risk by stalling legislation that would enable the security services to monitor potential jihadists travelling across Europe.

The Prime Minister attacked “frankly ridiculous” members of the European Parliament for blocking measures that would allow authorities across the continent to share information including passengers’ credit card numbers, phone numbers and detailed travel itineraries.

Britain believes the Passenger Name Records (PNR) data, collected by airlines during bookings, is essential to track the movements of potential terrorists from Syria and Iraq, and to disrupt potential airline hijacking plots.

Data from individual airlines is already demanded by the British security services, and has already been used to tackle potential terrorist suspects.

The government believes security across Europe would be significantly strengthened if data was shared on a common platform. Under the proposals, every airline operating in Europe would have to provide the same data – and that data would then be shared between all 28 EU states. It would mean data on a passenger travelling from, for example, Yemen to Germany could be shared between the German state security services and MI5 – allowing a suspect to be intercepted.

However, a deal struck between the leaders of European states to share PNR data with Canada has been blocked by MEPs, who claim such deals could result in citizens’ private data being shared with countries such as Korea and Russia.

Mr Cameron put pressure on Martin Schultz, the president of the European Parliament, to get MEPs to back the deal.

At the summit in Brussels, Mr Cameron told European leaders: "It is wrong that we can get more information from countries outside the EU than from each other.

"There are three threats - returning fighters, airline plots, and terrorists using air travel - and PNR is a simple way to better protect ourselves from these.

"Quite frankly, the European Parliament is letting us down in terms of keeping our people safe."

A Downing Street source added: “They have been trying to find ways to stall and block this. Schultz needs to get the rest of MEPs in the same place.

“It’s frankly ridiculous. MEPs may feel relaxed about putting the safety of EU citizens at risk, but that is because they don’t have to take responsibility and leaders do. It’s not right that they should be stopping this.”

Downing Street pointed out that without a common European framework, the airlines industry faces higher costs, legal challenges and may be torn between one jurisdiction – such as Mexico – that demands the data and the EU that blocks its release.

There is particular anger in No 10 at the role played by Claude Moraes, a British Labour MEP, who chairs the European Parliament’s civil liberties committee which has been hostile to the proposals.

“It raises questions about Ed Miliband and his weak leadership of the Labour Party over this important measure,” said one source.

A deal was struck between European national leaders and Canada in June to share passenger data, but it requires the consent of the European Parliament before it can enter into force.

In a move that will delay the measures for a year, MEPs voted to send the plans to the European Court of Justice to judge whether it is compatible with fundamental rights.

PNR data includes the name, travel itineraries, addresses and phone numbers of passengers. It also includes credit card numbers, travel agents, seat numbers and baggage of passengers.

Under the European proposals, police forces and security services would be able to keep data for 30 days, and hold it for a further five years if it anonymised.

The government believes the data is essential for tracking terrorists because it can be used to join up a series of flights, allowing a route from the Middle East to Britain to be tracked. It includes Eurostar data.

In one case, MI5 were able to use PNR to intercept a British resident who was travelling to Somalia for jihad using a complex route with several legs.

In another case pointed to by government sources, a international drug trafficking ring involving agents in the Caribbean, North America and Europe was dismantled and 14 members jailed after they were identified from flight information.

Britain also demanded the information from a handful of airlines to identify people travelling from areas hit by ebola and target them for screening.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141218eaci005bq


CULTURE
Texas cinema to show Team America: World Police in place of The Interview
By Kat Brown
665 words
18 December 2014
06:03 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Sony Pictures's decision to cancel its North Korea comedy following an ongoing hacking attack has resulted in outcry, and some imaginative work-arounds

Hollywood creatives have been up in arms following Sony’s decision to cancel the release of its North Korea comedy The Interview, and now one cinema has decided to take a stand by showing another film mocking the country’s leadership.

The Alamo Drafthouse in Dallas, Texas, tweeted that it had planned to show The Interview in spite of threats made against cinemas from the hacker group Guardians of Peace, but would now show the satirical comedy Team America: World Police instead.

The 2004 animation by South Park creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone features the former North Korean leader Kim Jong-il as the villain, giving him a much-mocked lisp and a song about being "lonely".

The cinema said that it would show a one-off free screening of the film "for freedom" on December 27, adding in a note on its website[http://drafthouse.com/movies/quote-alongs_team_america/dfw/#nf] : "but if you want to let the terrorists win...well, that's your prerogative."

Hundreds of cinemas across America have cancelled planned screenings of The Interview, in which James Franco and Seth Rogen play journalists told to assassinate the current North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un.

Guardians of Peace were behind a mass leak of emails, films and other material from Sony Pictures, which has sorely embarrassed the company and in some cases, caused rifts between its staff and talent.

Twitter: Alamo Drafthouse DFW - FOR THE RECORD: We were still going to show #TheInterviewMovie[https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23TheInterviewMovie] …

Twitter: Alamo Drafthouse DFW - …but now we'll be showing TEAM AMERICA in it's place…for FREE(DOM). Because AMERICA, F YEAH. http://t.co/7A7p6ApIIE[http://t.co/7A7p6ApIIE]http://t.co/U3EEqQU1Px[http://t.co/U3EEqQU1Px]

The Interview was due for US release on Christmas Day, and in the UK on February 6 2015. Other cinemas are coming forward to ask if it is possible to screen the film and donate the money to charity.

Twitter: The Cinefamily - The more we think about it, the more we want to show #TheInterview[https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23TheInterview], @SonyPictures[http://www.twitter.com/SonyPictures] . Can we do it and donate the proceeds to @amnesty[http://www.twitter.com/amnesty] ?

However, Sony has taken the decision to cancel the film entirely[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/11300487/Sony-cancels-The-Interview-release-over-hacker-threats.html] – it will not receive a cinema, DVD or on demand release.

The actors Zach Braff and Rob Lowe tweeted their disbelief[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/11300643/Hollywood-incredulous-over-Sonys-unAmerican-act-of-cowardice.html] at Sony’s decision, while some people called for the film to be released online.

Twitter: Zach Braff - There goes my Hitler comedy.

Twitter: Zach Braff - Canceling "The Interview" seems like a pretty horrible precedent to set.

Twitter: Rob Lowe - Wow. Everyone caved. The hackers won. An utter and complete victory for them. Wow.

Twitter: Rob Lowe - Saw @Sethrogen[http://www.twitter.com/Sethrogen] at JFK. Both of us have never seen or heard of anything like this. Hollywood has done Neville Chamberlain proud today.

The talkshow host Jimmy Kimmel called it “an un-American act of cowardice that validates terrorist actions and sets a terrifying precedent”.

Mitt Romney, the Republican candidate in the 2012 Presidential election, called for the film to be made available online saying, “Don’t cave, fight”.

Twitter: Mitt Romney - . @SonyPictures[http://www.twitter.com/SonyPictures] don’t cave, fight: release @TheInterview[http://www.twitter.com/TheInterview] free online globally. Ask viewers for voluntary $5 contribution to fight #Ebola[https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23Ebola] .

The bestselling author Paolo Coelho tweeted Sony Pictures an offer of $100,000 for the film, saying that he would distribute it on his blog.

Twitter: Paulo Coelho - I offer @SonyPictures[http://www.twitter.com/SonyPictures] 100k for the rights of "The Interview" I will post it free on my blog. Pls get in touch with me via @SonyPicturesBr[http://www.twitter.com/SonyPicturesBr]

A spokesman for Sony said it was "deeply saddened at this brazen effort to suppress the distribution of a movie, and in the process do damage to our company.

"We stand by our filmmakers and their right to free expression and are extremely disappointed by this outcome."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141218eaci002jq


NEWS
North Korea snubs China in Kim Jong-il anniversary plans
By Colin Freeman and Julian Ryall in Tokyo
551 words
17 December 2014
04:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
In a sign of cooling relations between hermit state and largest neighbour, North Korea has left off China from invitations to event marking three years since the Dear Leader's death

Kim Jong-un has snubbed China by refusing to invite representatives from Beijing to Wednesday's celebrations marking the third anniversary of the death of his father, Kim Jong-il.

Pyongyang is holding a day of state commemorations in honour of Kim Jong-il, whose death on December 17, 2011 paved the way for his son to inherit power. But as VIPs convene on Pyongyang to celebrate the late dictator's "indomitable revolutionary faith", officials from Beijing will not be among them.

Diplomats believe it is a sign of cooling relations between North Korea and its bigger neighbour, which has traditionally defended the regime in Pyongyang but has grown fed up with Kim Jong-un's increasingly erratic behaviour. No official reason for the snub has been given.

"The North Koreans appear to be making their displeasure know because relations with China are already not good," said John Everard, a former British ambassador to Pyongyang. "It's hard to be certain exactly why on this particular occasion. My guess is that Pyongyang asked for a ridiculous amount of aid, or some other unrealistic demand, and the Chinese said ‘no’."

According to one diplomatic source, the invitation was cancelled because of Pyongyang's eccentric recent decision to quarantine all foreigners visiting the north for 21 days as a precaution against the spread of Ebola. However, such measures are thought unlikely to be applied to visiting dignitaries, and have not prevented a South Korean opposition MP, Park Jie-won, making a visit already to lay a wreath in Kim Jong-il's honour. While peace talks between the North and South are currently suspended, the visit was seen as a humanitarian gesture.

North Korea's state-controlled media has already been in frenzied mode over Wednesday's anniversary, describing the late Kim Jong-il as a socialist visionary who turned North Korea into a scientific and nuclear-armed superpower.

"Leader Kim Jong Il was an illustrious commander who personified the indomitable revolutionary faith on the highest level," said an article in Rodong Sinmun, the official newspaper of the Central Committee of the Workers' Party of North Korea.

Other state media have highlighted sycophantic tributes for the event from other "personages and progressives" around the world. Among them was a full-length poem from a Russian writer, Alexander Brezhnev, whose verses to mark the occasion include "Ode to General Kim Jong Il" and "You Are the Whole World".

However, while the occasion is partly to draw a line over the traditional three year mourning period that follows the death of a North Korean leader, it will also put a close focus on Kim Jong-un’s own record in office.

Unlike his reclusive father, the younger Kim has made an effort to reach out to the North Korean public, making a point of visiting ordinary people in their homes and building entertainment facilities in Pyongyang. But he has also proved equally ruthless, ordering the execution of his uncle, Jang Song-taek, a year ago.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141217each001rz


Why are men incapable of listening to women?
By Richard Holt
623 words
17 December 2014
04:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Men can only listen to their partners for six minutes before switching off – but to blame us for a lack of attentiveness would be to miss the point, says Richard Holt

According to a new survey, the average man is an excellent listener who can concentrate for ages while being addressed on a wide range of topics. Unfortunately this is only the case when the person talking to him is a male friend and the conversation is about sport, cars, and what used to be referred to as “birds”.

When the person doing the talking is a woman who he is in a relationship with, however, things all go a bit Cheech and Chong. Listening to the lady in his life is something a man can only manage for six minutes[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2873728/Proof-men-really-selective-hearing-Study-finds-average-bloke-switches-just-six-minutes-chatting-half-pays-attention-15-minutes-talking-sport-mates.html] before his mind breaks free from its mooring and drifts dreamily away.

My first thought on reading this was that six minutes seems like an amazingly long time. Six whole minutes of full concentration? Frankly, if something takes longer than six minutes to say, then maybe somebody isn’t really getting to the point quickly enough.

But apparently this was not the point being made. Instead, the evidence is to be taken as proof that men are bad listeners and that they really should be doing better.

Over half of women in the Ladbrokes-commissioned survey are so fed up with men not listening to them that they throw in little tests to make sure that he is not faking it. They want to make sure he isn’t doing the classic man-move of giving the occasional non-committal nod in the hope that eventually she’ll get the hint and call a friend instead.

Why are men so terrible at listening to their partners? A quick straw poll of the three women sitting closest to me revealed some dreadful sexism. Men, apparently, don’t pay attention because they just don’t care. They can’t be bothered to listen to things that should be important to them but aren’t. Ouch.

Well, I feel I must at least try and offer some defence on behalf of the slandered brotherhood. Is it true that we just don’t care?

It's certainly true that we don’t care much about people we’ve never met. I don’t mean about people who are suffering and starving. But the survey found that the favourite topic of conversation among 55 per cent of women is relationships. Men care about people dying from Ebola, but I’m afraid we do find it difficult to shed a tear over the fact that someone we don’t know called Sarah has just split up with someone we don’t know called Dave.

Also it can be difficult to concentrate when you are aware that things could turn against you at any minute. Every man knows that a conversation can veer from harmless chatter to all-out hostility quicker than you can say “anniversary?” So it’s no wonder that we have a tendency to think “the sooner this ends, the sooner I’m in the clear”.

Finally, the worst time for concentration was found to be when a man is watching sport or channel-hopping. Is this really our fault? Some things must be kept sacred; our inability to pay attention when there's something interesting on the box should really be seen as a valiant attempt to hold onto everything that makes people civilised.

Otherwise, before we know where we are, it will be completely acceptable to walk up to a stranger, pull off his headphones and say: “So, what are you thinking about?”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141217each001p5


Watch: Southern Water offends church with 'crass' Christmas carol
By Leon Siciliano and WNA, video source SouthernWaterUK
1176 words
16 December 2014
11:45 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Southern Water's social media campaign has backfired after being labelled "cheap and offensive"

A water company found itself in the mire today for using a Christmas[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/topics/christmas/] carol in a social media campaign about blocked sewers.

The Southern Water YouTubevideo[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/telegraphtv/] features sewage workers singing about how to keep pipes clear to the tune of We Three Kings.

It comes as water firms acoss the UK warn that drains could be blocked by bus-sized 'turkeybergs' of congealed fat and muck this Christmas.

Isle of Wight Tory councillor Chris Whitehouse, a Catholic, described the Christmas carols video as 'crass' and labelled it a 'cheap and offensive use of a sacred song'.

Southern Water retorted that it is a 'light-hearted attempt to spread a serious message' about a problem which costs the public a fortune in drain clearance bills.

The song, aimed at preventing sewer blockages and flooding, includes lines such as "We three Ps can go down the loo, pee and paper and of course poo,

"Wipes and nappies makes sewers unhappy, clogging up pipes like glue."

It has been viewed hundreds of times already on YouTube said the company, which dealt with 11,000 blockages in its sewer network this year.

Coun Whitehouse accused the firm of taking a 'cavalier attitude to deeply held beliefs of the Christian community'.

He said "It really isn't appropriate to change the words of a sacred song so you are talking about raw sewage.

"How sad that a responsible company like Southern Water should plumb such depths by linking the fantastic Christian feast of Christmas to raw sewage to the tune of the carol, We Three Kings.

"It's not just the awfulness of the linkage, they've also got their timings wrong...the three Kings arrive at the stable to worship the newborn Prince of Peace as representatives of the non-Jewish people of the world not on Christmas Day, but on the great Feast of the Epiphany, the 12th day of Christmas.

"Southern Water should withdraw this crass video, apologise to the Christian community and make a significant donation to a charity helping ebola victims by way of restitution."

BBC Radio Solent religious presenter Tim Daykin said "The moral issue here is that a water company, like any monopoly, has a special responsibility to be sensitive to the sincerely held views of all its customers."

A Southern Water statement said "We are sorry if anyone has taken offence to the song - this was absolutely not our intention, it was a light-hearted attempt to spread a serious message, which could prevent homes from flooding.

"We have had a lot of positive feedback on the song including from a number of the performers in the Southern Water choir who are Christians."

We Three Kings of Orient Are was written in 1857 by Reverend John Henry Hopkins from Pennsylvania.

The utility company released its video of the carol with altered lyrics called We Three Ps - saying 'poo, pee and paper' are the only things that should be disposed of down the toilet.

Southern Water said "This week, the choir will also be performing at a rehabilitation home for disabled ex-servicemen and women, one of the company's chosen charities this year."

The company filmed the video inside Brighton's Victorian sewers.

Coun Whitehouse added "They should make a significant and real charitable donation to the overseas aid agency CAFOD to assist with its work to tackle ebola in Africa."

Southern Water says blockages can cause people's homes and gardens to flood with wastewater.

The song warns of the perils of pouring cooking oils down the sink, which also leads to problems in the pipes.

It includes vocal support from Bruce the sewer monster - Southern Water's mascot for its Pain the Drain campaign.

Singing sewerman Stuart Slark said "I've seen some strange things in these sewers but a choir singing with a fluffy orange monster, a woman wearing a dress made of wet wipes and a giant poo is definitely a first.

"To help keep weird stuff like this out of the sewers, only flush out the Three Ps - pee, poo and paper - everything else should go in the bin."

Water firms are begging people not to clog the sewers with bus-sized blobs of grease and fat from their Christmas dinners.

Blocked drains rise by a third over the festive period when thousands of tons of fat and lard are poured down kitchen sinks and toilet bowls.

Yucky Yuletide fatbergs, some the size of a Boeing holiday jet, form in the sewers and can lead to foul-smelling waste flooding the streets and oozing into homes.

It costs millions of pounds in 'double bubble' overtime pay because the water firms have to drag teams of engineers away from their own Christmas family celebrations to swill out the sewers.

The companies blame families who don't realise - or can't be bothered.

They cause a Noel, Noel nightmare by tipping turkey and goose fat down the plughole after festive feasts.

And it's made worse by families downing huge meals of stuffing and sprouts and then dashing to use the loo.

Even the Government isn't immune...it was revealed recently that Whitehall politicians and mandarins have been sitting above a giant fatberg of congealed slime embedded with condoms, sanitary products and faeces.

Technicians from Thames Water were sent in to clear the colossal blockage in a sewer beneath some of London's most prestigious streets.

It was caused by fat clinging to wet wipes in the two-metre high tunnel, eventually congealing to form a foul-smelling solid mass.

A painstaking operation was needed to avoid causing subterranean damage to the historical Westminster location, using specialist equipment to suck away the fat and high-powered jets to clean the ancient sewer walls.

Dave Dennis, the sewer manager for west London, said "We find objects every day that should not be there. Planks of wood, plastic bottles, and the bane of our lives - wet wipes.

"They may say flushable on the packet but they don't break down inside the sewer. They cling to cooled cooking fat and form fatbergs, which block pipes and flood our customers with sewage."

Thames Water spends approximately £1 million a month clearing fatbergs and blockages, dealing with 55,000 of them every year.

It's the same for other water companies across the UK and they are braced for a turkeyberg nightmare this Christmas.

They have pleaded with people around the UK to stop using the drains to pour away cooking fat.

"Please remember next time you go to throw cooking oil down the drain or wet wipes down the loo - bin it, don't block it" said Mr Dennis.

Earlier this year, a fatberg the size of a Boeing 747 was discovered beneath the streets of Shepherds Bush in West London, and a record-breaker in Kingston weighed 15 tonnes.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141216eacg003bo


TECH
Google's top trending news stories of 2014 in video
393 words
16 December 2014
09:03 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Ebola tops the UK Google news rankings for 2014 to become the most searched for story of the year - find out what else made the top ten in the list below

Google [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/google/] has released its annual search statistics for 2014[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/google/11294704/Googles-year-in-search-what-we-searched-for-in-2014.html] with the findings showing us what we're most interested in searching for here in the UK.

According to Google the romantics among us were most keen to find out "how to kiss".

Whilst the more active were looking for advice on “how to squat”, “how to twerk” and “how to meditate”.

When it comes to leisure time people were still interested in traditional holiday destinations such Paris, New York and Amsterdam, but we were also keen to explore more off-the beaten track places like Iceland.

Ebola [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] came first (see video above) when it came to searched for news stories - find out what else made the top ten most searched for stories in the list below.

The ALS ice bucket challenge came second as the Internet became awash with viral videos of the rich and famous dousing themselves with buckets of ice cold water to raise money for charity.

Stories about flight MH17 came third after a Malaysia Airlines plane crash in eastern Ukraine killing 298 people on board.

The Luis Suarez bite sent the internet into a frenzy after the Argentine player sunk his teeth into Italy's Giorgio Chiellini during a World Cup match.

In fifth place was the Scottish referendum, with The Better Together campaign breathing a sigh of relief after Scotland rejected independence.

In sixth place was Sir Cliff Richard who hit the headlines after police searched his home over alleged historic abuse claims.

Never really out of the limelight stars Rihanna, Jennifer Lawrence and Jessica Brown-Findlay came in seventh place after having naked photos of themselves leaked online.

The Paralympic athlete Oscar Pistorius came in eighth following his lengthy trial for the murder of girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp.

In ninth place was Michael Schumacher who was treated in hospital after hitting his head on a rock on the ski slopes in the French resort of Meribel.

Finally in tenth place was Kellie Malloney, a former boxing promoter who revealed he was 'proud to be British' after receiving messages of support for decision to undergo gender reassignment.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141216eacg000uo


Ebola: inside Liberia's West Point slum
By Joe Shute
1416 words
16 December 2014
02:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
In Liberia's notorious West Point slum, the Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative which the Telegraph is backing for its Christmas Charity Appeal, is helping those most affected by the outbreak

The shell of the Ducor Palace Hotel stands sentinel over Monrovia. Perched on the top of the city’s tallest hill, it was once one of Africa’s grandest establishments, a place where the beneficiaries of Liberia’s diamond and rubber trades would come to clink cocktails around the tiled swimming pool. But then came two decades of civil war and the building was overrun: bullets fired between the rebels and ex-president Charles Taylor’s forces still pockmark its decaying walls. Now its cavernous rooms are stripped to the bare concrete, the hotel empty and long abandoned.

The Ducor Palace has become a symbol of a state’s failings, and the view from its roof looks out over another: Monrovia’s notorious West Point slum, home to between 50,000 to 100,000 of West Africa’s most impoverished residents, many former child soldiers from the civil wars, squeezed on to a peninsula jutting out into the Atlantic Ocean.

In the summer, an Ebola quarantine centre inside West Point was over run by an angry mob. They hauled 29 infectious patients out, claiming they had been brought in from other areas. The slum was immediately put into lockdown. Overnight, on August 20, President Ellen Johnson Sirlief ordered the only road leading in to the slum be sealed off, and the entire community placed under quarantine. As the army moved in, many of the city’s vagrants who slept in the slum at night were trapped inside.

There was, predictably, a desperate clamour to escape, some people even trying to swim around the peninsula to enter the city’s port. As food supplies dwindled, crowds tried to storm the barricades and were fired on by soldiers and the police. One 15-year-old boy was fatally shot. The quarantine lasted for 17 days (it was meant to be 21) before the government gave in to the pressure - and the bodies piling up inside – and re-opened the slum.

Today Ebola persists in West Point, even if – as in the rest of the country – the epidemic is slowing. What has remained is a seething mistrust and a community in denial. “There is no Ebola” was the cry of the rampaging youths during the quarantine. That sentiment remains today.

The lack of education and resentment towards officialdom in West Point makes it the most challenging community overseen by the Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative (MMEI), one of the charities being supported in this year’s Telegraph Christmas appeal. International health and aid experts may now swarm between Monrovia’s healthcare facilities - this week, doctors began treating Ebola patients with serum therapy, an experimental treatment created from the blood of survivors – but many inhabitants would never dream of visiting a hospital. Instead, if feeling ill they send a relative to buy them some painkillers and ‘‘stomach medicine’’ from one of the pharmacies dotted around the slum.

Often the shops are little more than shacks opening on to the street. An array of exotically-titled tonics and pills line the walls around the small counter and outside pharmaceutical advertisements are painted on to wooden signs.

The Ebola outbreak, which began in March, and has caused 3,222 out of 6,598 recorded deaths, has entrenched a fear of the country’s dilapidated healthcare facilities. People will tell you the pharmacy is where you go to get better, the hospital is where you go to die. A similar sentiment exists in Guinea and Sierra Leone, too. It is why number the unreported number of cases across West Africa is feared to be even double the 18,000 known about.

As a result in Liberia, the untrained workers who staff the country’s pharmacies have found themselves thrust on to the front line. At least four pharmacy workers in Monrovia are believed to have died from the virus in recent months.

The MMEI has identified the pharmacies as a key part of its attempt to control the spread of Ebola and workers in 823 pharmacies have been trained so far in disease control and prevention. During the quarantine lockdown in West Point, its 17 pharmacies were overwhelmed but even while the slum was sealed off, MMEI personnel were allowed in to start training.

Now this role is expanding: as well as supervising their work in the community, the charity is hoping to equip pharmacy workers in West Point and beyond with full personal protection equipment - normally only reserved for burial teams and healthcare workers on the Ebola wards - and train them in how to put it on and take it off while safeguarding themselves.

Abu Bakar, 27, who grew up in West Point, is one of the pharmacy workers who underwent training. Prior to this outbreak, he says, he had never even heard of Ebola. His shop is near to the edge of West Point, on the only paved road running through it. Most here live in the teeming sand alleys which lead off down towards the filthy beach and open sewers – a breeding ground for a virus which is spread by contact with the blood, urine and faeces of sufferers. “When Ebola started people would come to us for help,” says Bakar. “They wouldn’t go to the hospital, only the drugstore. There were so many queuing you couldn’t even count them. We didn’t accept people who were very sick inside. During the quarantine, the Ebola deaths increased a lot. Outside the shop was a no man’s land.”

A few months ago, Bakar would count ambulances shrieking past his shop 30 or 40 times a day. Now he says it is only a few. But in West Point, people are still hiding the true extent of the outbreak from the authorities. “Sometimes when people have sick relatives in the house they tell me. It has happened to me so many times. We are still worried now. This is not finished yet.”

Key to the training for the pharmacy workers is encouraging them to limit the help they give. Some attempt to treat people inside the shop. In West Point there are makeshift clinics operating within the labyrinth of shacks despite the high risk of infection.

Daniel Boakye, 55, who has owned his tiny sweltering shop since 1990, is one of the pharmacies that MMEI supervisors suspect of being a backstreet clinic. However, he has agreed to training, and is regularly supervised.

“I didn’t know anything about Ebola before it came here,” he says. “Things have been very difficult since the quarantine. People were even having to share their food just to survive. They were fighting among themselves.”

Such is the stigmatisation experienced by those affected by Ebola, that the families of some pharmacy workers who died refuse to accept, even now, that they had the disease. Their fear is that if the community knows that the virus entered their businesses premises, it will be completely boycotted as a result.

In Clara Town, a slum community close to West Point, 24-year-old Iasha Fofana stands behind the counter of the pharmacy she now runs. Her three children, seven, four and three, sit quietly tending a pot of chicken soup bubbling on the porch. Her husband, Anamasu, died four months ago from Ebola. “Ebola has affected many people here,” she says, “but my husband didn’t have it, he got a sick stomach. They took him away to the hospital and he died.”

One encounters similar denial from West Point’s residents, too. In one of the slum’s few clearings, where fisherman haul their rowing boats up on to the beach, 50-year-old Agnes Kumah speaks in between gutting huge cassava fish.

“We are suffering here but there is no Ebola in the community,” she says. “The salt water in the sea has taken it away.”

Dr Diabe Pore - who mans West Point’s 29 bed Star of the Sea Hospital – says more people are starting to accept that the virus exists because of the out reach work in the community and so learning how to protect themselves and others. But, he says with a shrug, West Point’s troubles are far from finished yet. “When will Ebola leave here? I’m a doctor not a soothsayer.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141216eacg001bh


NEWS
Cereal Killer blow as shop owner takes on Channel Four
By Nicola Harley
319 words
15 December 2014
03:50 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The owner of breakfast cafe Cereal Killer has hit back at a critical Channel Four interview with him about his business by posting a letter on his social media site which has now gone viral

One of the brothers behind Britain's first cereal cafe has hit back at an interview where he was challenged over charging more than £3 for a bowl of cereal in one of London's poorest areas.

Gary Keely, who founded Cereal Killer Cafe with his twin brother Alan, had been asked by Channel Four News reporter Symeon Brown in an interview if he felt charging £3.20 for a bowl of cereal was a lot.

He had replied: "I think it is quite cheap for the area."

Adding that if people were "poor" they "probably" would not be able to afford it.

He has now hit back at the report by posting a letter in response on Twitter.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en">So we wrote an open letter to channel 4 news on our http://t.co/sGpuLO4t0y[http://t.co/sGpuLO4t0y]

— Cereal Killer Cafe (@CerealKillerUK) December 13, 2014[https://twitter.com/CerealKillerUK/status/543563778038988801]

The letter has more than 17,000 likes and has been shared hundreds of times.

In it, he continued: “If you want someone to solve the poverty crises in London, I don’t think I’m the man to do that as I am too busy trying to cure Ebola and get Kim Kardashian to keep her clothes on,” the open letter added. “Also you didn’t even pay me for the cereal, which you could so easily afford with your overpriced River Island suit, so I will send you a bill for the extortionate £3.20.”

The letter ended: “Yours Sincerely, Gary Keery (the worst person in the world).”

Keery says he has not received an apology from Channel Four.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141213eacd005v5


News
Stop complaining and lets unite against terrorism, says Cameron
Simon Johnson
654 words
15 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; Scotland
1,4
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Cameron hoping for collaboration against terrorism

DAVID CAMERON will today invite Nicola Sturgeon to help tackle major UK–wide threats such as terrorism rather than continue complaining about Scottish devolution in the wake of the separatists' independence referendum defeat.

Speaking before theirfirst meeting since Ms Sturgeon became First Minister last month, he said the "big debate" is about how the powers of the United Kingdom's devolved parliaments are exercised, rather than what they are.

The Prime Minister hopes to focus on major UK–wide issues during a session of the Joint Ministerial Committee (JMC) in London, which will feature for the first time a briefing for the Scottish, Welsh and Northern Irish First Ministers from the security and intelligence services.

Ms Sturgeon, Carwyn Jones and Peter Robinson will be updated on the threat facing the UK from Isilinspired extremism.

Mr Cameron is expected to ask the devolved leaders to work with him on this and other big issues affecting the entire UK.

But the new Scottish First Minister will use her bilateral talks with the Prime Minister to push for the early devolution of control over Holyrood elections so that the franchise can be extended to 16 and 17–year–olds.

The recommendation was made by the cross–party Smith Commission, which agreed an extra package of powers for the Scottish Parliament.

Unionist parties have argued this fulfilled a promise they made during the referendum campaign that a No vote would mean "extensive" new powers but SNP ministers have claimed voters were betrayed, despite them signing up to the agreement.

Mr Cameron said: "We have shown that this Government is determined to address the complex constitutional issues with settlements that are fair to all and built to last.

"We are keeping our promises, delivering on our commitments and making the United Kingdom all the stronger for it.

"Now is a chance to move forward, forging even stronger ties between our governments and our parliaments, and working together on the big issues across all the nations from the economy and trade, to global issues like aid and Ebola.

"It is now time we reached a point where the big debate is about how the powers are used, not about what they should be."

The Government is expected to publish proposals tomorrow for dealing with the English votes for English laws at Westminster.

No10 said the aim of the JMC plenary meeting, the first since September's referendum, was to foster a better understanding of the challenges posed and closer cooperation on tackling extremism at home and abroad. The briefing will be conducted by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (JTAC), which assesses all information relating to international intelligence at home and overseas.

In the summer, the JTAC raised the threat level to the UK from substantial to severe, suggesting that a terrorist attack is highly likely but not imminent.

This decision took into account developments in Syria and Iraq, where extremist groups are planning attacks against the West.

Mr Cameron hopes to encourage closer collaboration with the devolved administrations to deliver a new strategy that will place a statutory duty on organisations such as schools, universities, the police and prisons to try to prevent people being drawn into terrorism.

Ms Sturgeon said: "I will make it clear to David Cameron that we need to see swift action to make sure the powers are transferred in time to allow 16 and 17–year–olds to have a vote in the next Holyrood election.

"Any delay by Westminster in taking forward the necessary steps could see them deprived of a vote — but I am very confident that will not happen and that myself and the Prime Minister will reach a deal."

'I will make it clear we need swift action to ensure powers are transferred in time to let 16 and 17–year–olds vote'

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141215eacf0009l


NEWS
US avoids government shutdown as Congress passes spending bill
By David Millward US Correspondent
424 words
14 December 2014
05:31 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
$1.1 trillion budget sent to President Barack Obama as spending bill clears senate avoiding repetition of chaotic 18-day shutdown of October 2013

The US Congress has approved a $1.1 trillion spending bill, heading off the threat of a second federal government in 14 months.

After a prolonged debate, the measure cleared the Senate by 56 votes to 40. It was narrowly approved by the House of Representatives on Thursday.

It means that America will be spared the chaos of last October when the government shut down created chaos.

Last year’s deadlock closed down government departments and agencies including Nasa, which runs the country’s space programme, as well as world-famous landmarks from the Grand Canyon to the Statue of Liberty.

The White House has indicated that President Barack Obama will approve the 1,603-page bill, thus providing cash to keep the federal government and agencies running until the end of September.

One notable exception was the Department of Homeland Security, whose funding has only been agreed until the end of February.

Senators agreed a package which will include $5 billion to counter the Jihadist Islamic State and $5.4 billion to tackle the Ebola crisis.

Agreement came at the end of a bruising battle marked by ill tempered haggling which came to an end after a rare Saturday session.

There there divisions between the parties, with the Republicans trying to limit the President’s freedom of action, notably over immigration.

But the battle between the Republican establishment and the right wing Tea Party was also laid bare. Moderates rounded on Ted Cruz, a potential right-wing standard bearer in the battle for the Republican for trying to cut funds for the President’s proposed immigration amnesty.

This in turn led to the unravelling of a bipartisan agreement to spare the Senate having to sit over the weekend.

It left senators, many of whom having been forced to cancel holiday plans, trudging through a series of more than two dozen votes

Democrats in turn were unhappy at the price they had to pay for the passage of the spending bill including easing restrictions on banks which were imposed after the 2008 financial crash.

The agreement will be a relief for the President who will face a far more difficult Congress when in the new year when, as a result of the midterm elections, the Republicans will control both the Senate and House of Representatives.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141214eace001p6


Features
Afternoon Drama: Ebola
Gillian Reynolds
99 words
14 December 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
1; National
11
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
THURSDAY 18 DECEMBER

RADIO CHOICE

RADIO 4, 2.15PM

Don't shrink away from that title. Mike Walker's play is a drama of hope, a true story of how the virus was first identified in 1976 from a blood specimen flown from Zaire to Belgium. A young team of virologists went back to combat the disease, using only primitive equipment. The narrator here is Peter Piot, once one of that team, now head of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. Directed by Dirk Maggs for independents Perfectly Normal.

Gillian Reynolds

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141214eace000c0


News
YOUR TELEGRAPH TODAY 14.12.2014
176 words
14 December 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
3; National
2
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
STELLA

Azealia Banks

The bad girl of rap grows up

My Ebola diary

A doctor reports from Sierra Leone

Who'd be an alpha woman?

The cost of having a career and a kept man

BUSINESS

Financial armageddon

Can banks withstand the worst?

Samba scandal

Corporate corruption in Brazil

Gas man

What Centrica's departing chief will miss about the job

SPORT

United's identity crisis

Former coach warning over Van Gaal

Cook on the brink

England may axe their captain

Rory's glory

Why McIlroy is odds on to win

DISCOVER

Caribbean renaissance

The Dominican Republic is reborn

Swedish smorgasbord

The world's most isolated gourmet restaurant

Terrific Tunis

My Kind of Townwith Miss Tunisia

LIVING

A man unbroken

The POW behind Angelina Jolie's new film

Kissed by genius

Stephen Hawking

How to be a countrypreneur

Launching a rural business

MONEY

Savings spree

Shop at overseas prices from home

Pensioner Bonds

The Government's new over- 65s savings scheme examined

Fame & Fortune

Apprentice winner Stella English

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141214eace0008m


News
YOUR TELERPH TODAY [...]
159 words
14 December 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
2; National
2
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Azealia Banks The bad girl of rap grows up My Ebola diary A doctor reports from Sierra Leone Who'd be an alpha woman? The cost of having a career and a kept man Caribbean renaissance The Dominican Republic is reborn Swedish smorgasbord The world's most isolated gourmet restaurant Terrific Tunis My Kind of Town with Miss Tunisia Financial armageddon Can banks withstand the worst? Samba scandal Corporate corruption in Brazil Gas man What Centrica's departing chief will miss about the job A man unbroken The POW behind Angelina Jolie's new film Kissed by genius Stephen Hawking How to be a countrypreneur Launching a rural business ROBINSON GEOFF Xxxxxx Words to go in here Xxxxxx Words to go in here Xxxxxx Words to go in here Savings spree Shop at overseas prices from home Pensioner Bonds The Government's new over- 65s savings scheme examined Fame & Fortune Apprentice winner Stella English

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141214eace0007p


News
Fallon: in defence of my world
Tim Ross
1476 words
14 December 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
1; National
18
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
War against Isil needs British boots on the and we should prepare for the worst prepare for the worst from russia the defence secretary tells Tim Ross

HALF-AN-HOUR into our discussion, Michael Fallon rises from his chair and crosses his office to a heavy wooden easel, laden with maps.

With the air of a battle-hardened general, the Defence Secretary outlines the progress that Western-backed forces have made against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil). "They have been moving north up this road here," he says, indicating a dark line on his military plan. "The next task is to move westwards and to clear them out that way."

The 62-year-old had no experience of defence before David Cameron put him in charge of the Ministry of Defence in the summer reshuffle. But he brought with him wide knowledge of Whitehall, having first served as a minister under Baroness Thatcher.

Mr Fallon admits to finding the battlefield detail "fascinating" and is clearly thrilled to be running a ministry where, above all, things get done.

"When you pull levers here there are wires on the end," he says. Not only wires, but warships, fighter jets and tens of thousands of troops - the men and women whose lives are in his hands. Despite the pride he takes in working with the Armed Forces, the gravity of his responsibilities clearly weighs heavily on Mr Fallon.

The Defence Secretary must personally authorise any planned target for British air strikes in the campaign against Isil. Each night, he sleeps within reach of three phones, one of which is encrypted. His bodyguards are on standby around the clock to drive him to a secure base in case he needs to give an order for an urgent mission to proceed, at any hour.

"You feel that responsibility. But you also feel for the airmen and women who are carrying it out," he says. "They are very young, many of them, and you are putting them in harm's way."

Three years since the last British troops withdrew from Iraq after the 2003 invasion, Mr Fallon is preparing to order hundreds to return as the war against Isil enters a new phase.

"The challenge now is that the air strikes have changed Isil's patterns. They are not using large formations out in the open any more," he says. "They are increasingly tucked away in towns and villages. That means they have got to be rooted out by ground troops.

"This has to be done by an own-grown army, not by Western groups."

But Iraqi forces lack the training, equipment and bomb disposal specialists that they need to defeat the jihadists and this is where Britain will take the lead in January.

"Our role now, apart from the air strikes, is increasingly going to be on training," says Mr Fallon. In particular, it will mean dealing with car and truck bombs and roadside devices, as well as basic infantry skills. "We have not finalised numbers yet - obviously we have got a lot of kit back from Afghanistan that we can make available - but we are talking very low hundreds."

Although they will be based in four "safe areas", these trainers will need to be protected by combat-ready soldiers, and this "force protection" will also "probably" be British, he says.

What about Syria? The Prime Minister has been clear that Isil cannot be defeated without also being wiped out across the porous border. Mr Fallon agrees but there seems no chance of Britain joining American bombing raids over Syria any time soon.

"There is no legal barrier but we need parliamentary support and that isn't available at the moment," he says.

Mr Fallon is speaking at a time when contemplating a deeper war against terrorism is particularly sensitive. The transatlantic relationship came under new strain last week following a US Senate report into the use of torture by CIA interrogators in the years after the September 11 attacks.

Questions were raised over what Britain knew of the "enhanced interrogation techniques" such as waterboarding and the use of British air-fields for "rendition" — the transporting of suspected terrorists to secret prisons where they were allegedly tortured.

Should Tony Blair and Jack Straw, the former foreign secretary, who orchestrated Britain's part in President George W Bush's war on terror, be held to account for what they knew? "Yes. It's for ministers in that government to account for their actions. That is our tradition and that's the expectation," says Mr Fallon.

He does not support calls for a judge-led inquiry, preferring to let the investigation by the intelligence and security committee of Parliament take its course. Mr Blair and Mr Straw must be ready to answer this committee's questions, says Mr Fallon.

Mr Fallon is also impatient to see the results of the Chilcot Inquiry into the 2003 Iraq war. There is certainly no case, in his view, for delaying the publication of the report, which many expect to criticise Mr Blair and Mr Straw, until after May's general election.

"It has been delayed long enough. Let's see it," Mr Fallon says. "Chilcot was about one central issue: whether our country was taken to war on a false prospectus. That needs to be resolved. If it turns out it was done on a false prospectus then that's a very serious charge that Blair and his ministers will have to answer."

Many senior military figures believe the cuts in the regular Army from 102,000 to 82,000 will make it impossible to repeat action on the scale of the invasion of Iraq.

With economists predicting more years of austerity ahead, the MoD is one of the departments at greatest risk.

It's a threat that Mr Fallon appears reluctantly to accept. "I will be fighting my corner but so will my colleagues," he says. "The public want money spent on schools and hospitals as well as the Armed Forces."

But any further reductions in numbers should be avoided. "I think the size of our Armed Forces is probably about right," he says. "I don't see the case for cutting personnel numbers."

Nowhere is the need to maintain robust defences clearer than in addressing the threat from Vladimir Putin's resurgent Russia. The Russian president has been "intimidating", "threatening", and "testing" Nato and its allies, Mr Fallon says, and cannot be trusted not to go too far and provoke a conflict.

What is the Defence Secretary's assessment of Mr Putin's motives? "Maybe the economic growth has been slackening. Maybe he sees the chance for Russia to expand its borders again. Maybe it's resentment at the loss of the old Soviet Union - a mixture of all, perhaps."

Is it now possible to imagine an armed conflict between Russia and the West? "I don't trust Putin at the moment and we have to prepare for the worst," Mr Fallon warns.

The RAF has been forced to deploy its rapid reaction Typhoon jets to escort Russian "Bear" bombers away from British air space more than 100 times this year alone, a tripling in the number of incursions since last year. British crews "are under pressure now", he says.

These exercises aim to test British responses but Mr Putin is playing a "provocative and dangerous" game, the minister warns. Is there a risk of shots being fired? "I'm more worried about a mid-air collision where they are flying directly on top of the UK border. Their bears should stay in the woods."

After 13 years, one conflict at least seems finally to have been settled. "Afghanistan is in a far better shape than it was 10 years ago. Don't forget, eight million people voted there this summer. That's a huge achievement," says Mr Fallon.

As the last troops pulled out of the country, Mr Fallon welcomed the public's appreciation of the sacrifices that British forces made, including The Telegraph's own tribute to the 453 servicemen and women who died there since 2001.

"I worried the public mood would get very cynical, and say 'was all this worth it?'," he says. "In fact, I think the public have picked up that it was worthwhile."

With that, Mr Fallon is back at the easel, leafing through the maps: Sierra Leone, where British personnel are helping to tackle Ebola; Libya; Ukraine; Afghanistan, and, of course, Iraq. "The map of Sierra Leone was in that cupboard," Mr Fallon says, pointing towards the corner of the room. "I suppose at the end of Blair's war they tossed it, thinking 'we won't need that again'. But then you do. All this, it comes around." Editorial Comment: Page 29

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141214eace00074


Features
The Ebola diaries
1968 words
14 December 2014
Sunday Telegraph Magazine 'Stella'
STELLA
1; National
40,41,43,45
English
Sunday Telegraph Magazine 'Stella' © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
At turns despairing and optimistic, sad and improbably joyful, one young British doctor's impassioned dispatch from the frontline of the war against the disease...

Felicity Fitzgerald, 32, is a paediatrician studying for a PhD in infectious diseases at the UCL Institute of Child Health. Since November she has been volunteering at the Ebola isolation unit at Connaught Hospital in Freetown with the King's Sierra Leone Partnership. This is her edited diary

Day 1

I'm writing this somewhere over Morocco and my stomach is tied in little knots of excitement and just a hint of trepidation. I'm en route to the Ebola isolation unit in Connaught Hospital, Freetown. After a year of happily living in PhD-land, I'm hurling myself into the biggest outbreak ever of a virus the very name of which makes people blanch. Bonkers. Clearly.

And yet there isn't anywhere else in the world I should be. I've always heroworshipped volunteers for Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) and other crisisresponse NGOs, and wondered if I'd have the guts to go myself. Furthermore, this is my field: bugs, viruses, bacteria, fungi and parasites. I'm single, with no children - my only dependants being my pot plants - and I am not currently on a clinical rota. I knew my family would be supportive, albeit rather anxiously. This was what struck me two months ago when I initially thought of volunteering: who else should be staffing these treatment centres but people like me? This is potentially one of the most important events in the field of infectious diseases that will occur in my lifetime.

Though when the idea first came to me it wasn't without a hearty dose of fear.

One colleague asked me if I felt like I was "going over the top". But the more I read about Ebola, the less scared I became. This is a virus after all, not black magic. A horrific virus that has been laying waste to three countries, but a virus that can be contained. This is the resounding message I've heard from healthcare workers currently out there and those returning. We have to scale up treatment centres, to offer effective care to sufferers and crucially to separate the infected from uninfected. Every day that there are victims unable to access a treatment centre is a day the virus will win. But the overriding mood among those working in the outbreak is not despair or fear, but determination to get things done.

The weeks ahead will be gruelling, heartbreaking and hugely physically demanding - I'm sure I will live to regret a facetious comment that my hot-yoga addiction would prepare me for the sweatbox of personal protective equipment (PPE). That said, I know I will hate leaving in five weeks and be eager to return as soon as I can. Sorry, Mum.

Day 3

I reek of chlorine. It is the first thing I smell when I wake up, and when I move I waft swimming-pools. I'm beginning to wonder if I'll ever smell of anything else. And yet it is comforting, as no damn filovirus is getting past my 1:10 chlorine. Chlorine is now a way of life in Sierra Leone - not only for those working with Ebola patients, but at the door of every shop and café, even at road blocks. In fact, pretty much the whole of Freetown now smells of it.

In the isolation unit the odour almost overpowers all the less sanitary smells that go with such sick patients. I have been learning the complicated dance of donning and doffing PPE, during which your hands get dunked in chlorine at least 10 times - more if you're feeling particularly paranoid. Each dunking feels like added protection against any particles lurking on your gloves - but chlorine burns are an unexpected occupational hazard. Yikes they sting!

Another unexpected hurdle has been adjusting to having no physical contact with anyone. When I instinctively move towards someone to shake hands, welcoming smiles become slightly fixed grimaces and people recoil, as you would from a snotty child or muddy dog. Some work around this by knocking elbows - a greeting termed an "Elbowla". Dark humour is a saving grace here.

I have been welcomed as a "Pikin Doctor" (paediatrician) with huge smiles and laughter, and cries of "Hey Pikin Doctor" follow me through the hospital grounds. The enthusiasm is a little unnerving. Yes, I am a paediatrician, but before arriving here my experience of managing children with Ebola was minimal (read: non-existent).

The gruelling physicality of shifts in the unit would put any boot camp to shame, and time off is mostly spent writing protocols, making plans, debating what is feasible in such a setting, and reminding ourselves that we really should talk about something other than Ebola. I've only been here a few days and am pretty tired - my admiration is enormous for local workers and those who've been here since the outbreak began.

The expressions of extreme terror of those dying of the disease will always haunt me. I've never seen anything like it before. They are suffering personified. Anything we can do to try to mitigate the horrors justifies any amount of sweat, toil and burnt hands.

Day 9

A wonderful thing happened today. I was able to give a patient in our unit the news that he tested negative for Ebola and was free to go home. He leapt out of bed, danced for joy, and praised the Lord and us - and even, mortifyingly, bowed to our PPEclad feet. Throughout the unit we could hear him singing. I'm not the only one who got a bit weepy.

And yet there was a spectre at the feast. The way the system works is that when you attend a healthcare unit, you are immediately screened for symptoms of Ebola - fever plus abdominal pain, vomiting, headache and so on. The symptoms are pretty non-specific and can signify anything from malaria to flu. If there is any suspicion of Ebola, you are admitted to an isolation unit - beds permitting - to be tested. And there you are kept until the results are available. This is meant to be within 24 hours, but can be up to eight days. Patients who test positive are then transferred to treatment centres such as those run by MSF, and negative patients are either discharged home or to the hospital, depending on how sick they are.

The delay means that those who turn out to be negative - such as our elated singing man - may be in beds next to positive patients, with profuse diarrhoea, vomiting and even bleeding. Patients are separated from each other by a wall of plastic sheeting; we use chlorine to decontaminate our gloved hands between patients; they are told not to leave their bed. But we just don't know yet how many people will actually be infected by being admitted. I'm dreading the prospect of him returning.

Unsurprisingly, emotions run high here. Joy and despair walk hand in hand - as do the comical and sinister. Hiccups, for example. I hiccup a lot and have always found it an excuse to giggle. However, hiccups are a feature of Ebola - appearing quite late in the disease. Suddenly, they're a lot less funny.

Similarly, in wonderful Sierra Leone style, our drive to work yesterday was halted by an impromptu road block.

Five cool teenagers were filming a hiphop video. Today we stopped in almost the same place, held up by a crowd who also seemed to be singing. It took a minute to recognise this as the keening sound of grief - and to spot the menacing Darth Vader figures of the burial team removing a corpse from a house.

Freetown feels like a city on a knife edge. Hilarity and nervous energy overlying an undercurrent of constant anxiety and an insidious, invisible killer. And yet life goes on. Hope the video makes it to YouTube.

Day 11

A few months ago I read a blog of an MSF volunteer who found himself shouting over the beautiful jungled canopy of Sierra Leone, "Where is everybody?" Today, four months after the World Health Organisation declared an international emergency, I did the same thing. I had gritted teeth and clenched fists and it came out as more of a squeak, but my fury and incomprehension echoed his.

I always knew I would find it frustrating being unable to provide the sophisticated care I would like, but this isn't only about the unavailability of intensive-care units and machines. This isn't only about watching young people die in a terrible way and being able to offer nothing but words of comfort in badly accented Krio. This is about people dying in triage tents with no access to any kind of medical therapy, as there are no beds available. This is about having to put desperately sick people in ambulances for five hours, as that is the nearest treatment centre with space. This is about how the world knew that a nightmarish plague had hit West Africa, waited more than six months and then sang a song about it.

Of course, I know that many agencies are contributing and working as fast as they can, and that there are some who have been campaigning for months. I can't imagine how much more frustrated they must be. Perhaps during my time here progress will be made.

There are many dreadful things about the Ebola epidemic - the suffering, the squalor and the undercurrent of fear that you could be next. For me at this point, by far the most terrifying is that nothing will change and the status quo of international turpitude will continue.

Day 16

Yesterday I nearly spread-eagled over a corpse we were lifting out of a car (wellies and floors covered in chlorine are an occupational hazard), but was saved by a colleague who is an Ebola survivor. Gratitude ensued - until we got outside, changed back into our normal clothes and he said, "Wow, Flic, is that an under-boob sweat patch?" Yes. Yes, it is. Suddenly a lot less grateful.

Sweat, like chlorine, is a way of life. It can get in your eyes and impede the one method of normal body language you have left - eye contact. As a paediatrician I find this particularly challenging, as my normal methods of putting children at ease are out of bounds - no pulling faces, no peekaboo (can't be waving potentially contaminated gloves near your visor) and, sadly, very little body contact, as children have a tendency to grab things.

In treatment centres where everyone is confirmed positive, some of the better patients assist in looking after children, which is a wonderful boon. We put a four-year-old boy in an ambulance with a relatively well old lady, handing her oral rehydration salts and asking her to make sure he drank on the journey. He beamed with delight and stretched out his arms to the first normal-looking person offering him a drink in two days.

Top of my wish-list for paediatric Ebola patients is for survivors to look after them in the unit. These children are going through enough not to be terrorised by faceless figures in white suits - and the singing silly Pikin Doctor in me will have to remain suppressed for now.

Follow Dr Fitzgerald's diary at telegraph.co.uk/ebola

I told a patient that he had tested negative. He leapt out of bed, danced for joy, and praised the Lord and us

The world knew that a nightmarish plague had hit Africa, waited more than six months, then sang a song about it

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STELLA0020141214eace0000z


Features
Find us at
102 words
14 December 2014
Sunday Telegraph Magazine 'Stella'
STELLA
1; National
5
English
Sunday Telegraph Magazine 'Stella' © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
telegraph.co.uk/stella twitter.com/stellamagazine facebook.com/telegraphstella instagram.com/stella_telegraph pinterest.com/telegraphstella

'Brighton's a very fun place to live.You can get away with wearing anything'

p46 Style cities UK

'Women are brought up to expect parity, but they're dismayed to be out-earning men because of the pressure it entails'

p34 Alpha women

p56

Boxing Day with Orla Kiely. A laid-back buffet at the designer's London home

'The potential risk of infection, despite all our best efforts, is considerable'

p40 A volunteer doctor treats Ebola in Sierra Leone

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STELLA0020141214eace0000q


Features
From the editor
106 words
14 December 2014
Sunday Telegraph Magazine 'Stella'
STELLA
1; National
5
English
Sunday Telegraph Magazine 'Stella' © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
All sorts of unexpectedness has appeared on the road to gender equality. Nearly a third of women in this country are now their family's main breadwinner. Straightforwardly good news for women, then. In fact, research suggests that it's we more than men who struggle with such role reversal. This week's Stella investigates the rise of the "alpha" woman, and how she feels about the man she often trails in her wake. Also, we share the diaries of a British doctor fighting the Ebola virus in Sierra Leone, day by awe-inspiring day. An alpha woman in the truest sense.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STELLA0020141214eace0000n


Features
Rapper unwrapped
64 words
14 December 2014
Sunday Telegraph Magazine 'Stella'
STELLA
1; National
1,5
English
Sunday Telegraph Magazine 'Stella' © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Azealia Banks opens up

Breadwinners and losers

The alpha women counting the cost of having a career and a kept man

Style cities UK

It's destination Glasgow Brighton in our latest from fashion's frontlines

The ebola diaries

A shocking frst-hand report by a doctor in Sierra Leone

FOOD & ENTERTAINING

We gatecrash Orla Kiely's Boxing Day buffet

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STELLA0020141214eace0000d


Business
The clouds over Britain's future that won't budge
SIR MARTIN SORRELL
1110 words
14 December 2014
The Sunday Telegraph
STEL
1; National
4
English
The Sunday Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
In January the world's political and business leaders, with the media circus in tow, will make their annual pilgrimage to Davos for the World Economic Forum.

Davos is often described as a bellwether of the major geopolitical issues for the year ahead, but anyone looking to the forum's constellation of stars for a glimpse of the future is likely to be disappointed.

The past 12 months have seen, for example, the rise of Isil [Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant], the Ebola epidemic, the eruption of the crisis in Ukraine and the stand-off in Hong Kong - hugely significant events with global repercussions, none of which were predicted at Davos 2014.

This collective failure supports the central premise of Nassim Nicholas Taleb's 2007 bestseller The Black Swan: that the world is shaped by high-impact but largely unforeseen (or unforeseeable) events that make a mockery of standard models of economic forecasting and risk assessment.

Taleb's black swans are close cousins of Donald Rumsfeld's "unknown unknowns." Before the European colonisation of Australia it was an irrefutable fact, based on observation and historical data, that all swans were white. The expression "black swan" first connoted something impossible or highly improbable, and then something that turned conventional wisdom on its head.

But what of the "known unknowns" - the things we know we don't know, and are therefore on the lookout for? They are swans neither black nor white: the outcome of a long-running military conflict, the precise dimensions of a much-anticipated political settlement, the results of an election. It's an imperfect metaphor but, for want of a better one, at WPP we call them grey swans.

From a financial perspective they matter a lot to us because the uncertainty they create affects the confidence of our clients around the world and the extent to which they are prepared to invest in product development, innovation and marketing services.

The grey swans have become a regular feature of our quarterly results statements, where they are flocking in ever-greater numbers: from the continued fragility of the eurozone and prospects for the Middle East to the Sino-Japanese islands spat, the slowdown among the BRIC nations and the difficulties in tackling the US deficit. I cannot remember a time, certainly in the last 20 years, when there were so many geopolitical flashpoints or potential Sarajevos.

In the world of UK politics, too, uncertainty rules. The latest poll of general election voting intentions from TNS BMRB puts Labour at 31pc, the Tories at 30pc and Ukip at 19pc. More than half of those with a view on the outcome of the next election expect no one party to have an overall majority.

A quarter of Conservative and Ukip supporters say they could change their minds before next May, compared with 19pc for Labour voters.

In other words, the race is too tight to call, party loyalty is soft and there's everything to play for.

With no clear water between Labour and the Tories, another coalition has been on the cards for some time, but pollsters now believe there's a good chance that for a coalition government to form a secure majority it will need three, not two, parties to join forces. Hardly a recipe for stability and efficient decision-making, and bad news for business.

Scotland recently saw off one of the UK's grey swans when it voted to keep the union. Should the Conservatives form or lead the next government, another will flap into view: the prospect of a referendum on our membership of the EU.

The question of Europe has, of course, become one of immigration. I believe that the free movement of labour (and capital, goods and services), underpinned by EU membership, has been good for UK business and good for the UK economy as a whole. The body of academic work on the subject supports this view and the possibility of an isolated future outside Europe is one of the biggest clouds on Britain's economic horizon.

Along with others, I have previously urged political leaders to stand up for what they believe in and make the positive case for immigration. However, we also have to recognise, as one commentator wrote recently, that there is a difference between leadership and insulting the voters.

While on balance increasing investment in health care is the public's most important priority, according to TNS control of our borders is a close second - ahead of economic growth, unemployment and education. About 22pc of the population think it's the number one issue for the UK.

People's concerns over apparent unfairness and societal changes resulting from high levels of immigration are very real - to which the course adjustments by both the Government and opposition testify.

We will see in May whether the Prime Minister's plan to restrict benefits for immigrants is successful in pinning back Ukip's parliamentary ambitions.

David Cameron received some help from his Chancellor in that respect with what was, given the deficit-imposed constraints within which he was working, an ingenious and electioneering Autumn Statement.

George Osborne is a deft strategist and has proved to be a shrewd and capable chief financial officer for Britain. In a "G2" world, increasingly dominated by the United States and China (at least in the short term), the UK's growth has outstripped that of rivals and exceeded expectations.

For WPP, Britain has been one of our strongest markets and the fastest-growing of all the mature economies in which we operate.

None the less, the deficit remains stubbornly high and borrowing in nominal terms is greater than it was under Labour. Moreover, a long-term strategy built on highvalue manufacturing, services, education, technology, hard and soft infrastructure, immigration and tax policy remains unarticulated. Fortunately for the Government, while few observers believe its medium to long-range projections for reducing the deficit, the country appears to be in no mood to contemplate the realities of the long, hard slog ahead.

Even less palatable is the question of how much of the national shortfall is structural rather than cyclical.

We all hoped that the uncertainty over the UK's future prosperity, which began with the collapse of Lehman Brothers, was a temporary phenomenon. Six years later, this particular grey swan is firmly established as a long-term resident of these shores.

Sir Martin Sorrell is the founder and chief executive of WPP

'The country appears to be in no mood to contemplate the realities of the long, hard slog ahead

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document STEL000020141214eace00009


Features
After four months of surveys and [...]
Charles Starmer–Smith
477 words
13 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
7
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Telegraph Travel Awards 2014 Sponsored by centtrip

The Telegraph's head of travel Charles Starmer–Smith reflects on the success of this years awards

After four months of surveys and four million votes cast by 90,000 individuals, the 14 winners of the 2014 Telegraph Travel Awards have been named.

We are delighted to be able to say that this is now the biggest reader travel survey in the world. To put it into perspective, we received more votes than there are people in the country that has won best destination in 2014.

The key principle of these awards is that they are qualitative, not quantitative – so it does not follow that the bigger the travel company, the better its chances of winning. Equally, were it simply about the number of votes, Spain or France – the most visited destinations for UK travellers – would win best country year after year. Instead, the methodology we use means that to win an award you must satisfy your customers, or your visitors, more than any of your rivals.

There is a consistency in these results that confirms their legitimacy. They are a reflection of your views, and your views alone.

Moreover, when a company or destination wins an award for the third consecutive year – as has happened in these awards – it's not a sign of standing still. Quite the opposite. It shows that the best travel providers adapt to your changing habits, tastes and demands.

Despite many setbacks for the tourism industry this year – not least the traumatic Malaysia Airlines incidents, the outbreak of Ebola and ongoing economic turmoil – your interest in travel shows no sign of waning. Far from it. We have enjoyed record visitors to our website, new audiences at our live travel events, and about 130,000 of you have downloaded our new travel guides app.

In the awards survey, you told us that you were spending more on travel than before, and travelling more frequently. In the past two years, one in three Telegraph readers has been to the United States (compared with a national yearly average of one in 17), one in nine has been to Australia (national average: one in 103) and one in 15 has been to India (national average: one in 80).

We must thank our prize providers, who donated 40 trips worth a total of £800,000 – a wonderful reward for the lucky winners. We must also thank our sponsor, Centtrip, whose innovative approach to prepaid currency cards has recently led to it winning its own accolade at the annual StartUp awards.

But most of all, we must thank you, the readers. Your opinions truly matter, not just to us, but also to the companies to which you give your seal of approval.

Here's to a great 2015. Happy travels.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141213eacd000dj


Features
RADIO
GILLIAN REYNOLDS
1758 words
13 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
50,51
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
GILLIAN REYNOLDS PICK OF THE WEEK

REVIEW

SATURDAY

The Kitchen Cabinet Radio 4, 10.30am

It's logical to put the new season of Jay Rayner's cheery culinary chat show just before Christmas, as the nation is bombarded with suggestions of what to eat, how to cook it, where to buy it (and don't even mention the great leftovers encyclopaedia). Still, as this programme aims to change minds and alter habits, sample the conversational menu of Annie Gray (food historian), MasterChef winner Tim Anderson and James Petrie, former "head of creative development" for Heston (who can even complicate chips) Blumenthal.

Radio Heads (Radio 4 Extra, 9.00am) is a three–hour compilation of favourite comedy from the man who broadened its radio boundaries, the late (and still much–missed) Jonathan James–Moore. He died in 2005, having been BBC Radio's head of Light Entertainment from 1991 and a producer before that. His own work was gloriously eclectic and for this sequence (first heard in 2003) he picked The Million Pound Radio Show, alongside Goodness Gracious Me and others.

Kingsley Amis's lesserknown sci–fi side shows itself in To See the Sun (Radio 4 Extra, 6.00pm), a tale of vampires in Twenties Dacia, starring Christopher Cazenove.

Opera on 3: Live from The Met (Radio 3, 5.00pm) brings Wagner's Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg, a work lovingly cited by jazzman Branford Marsalis when he was a Radio 3 morning guest recently.

SUNDAY

Sunday Feature: The Supernatural North Radio 3, 6.45pm

Why does the human imagination, from ancient Greek through every century since, so often fly northwards to conjure worlds of ice, fire and magic? Think of the wintry spells woven by Hans Christian Andersen and CS Lewis. Eleanor Rosamund Barraclough (a Radio 3 New Generation thinker) explores mountain trolls, magic wolves, white witches, snow queens and shamans with AS Byatt and Philip Pullman.

The Rest Is History (Radio 4, 7.15pm) is a new comedy show from Frank Skinner, discussing great moments in time, with resident expert Dr Kate Williams and starry guests.

Comedy Club: Bleak Expectations (Radio 4 Extra, 10.30pm) is a true comedy classic by Mark Evans, a loving pastiche of Dickens which relates the life of Sir Philip "Pip" Bin and the dastardly attempts to foil him by Mr Gently–Benevolent. It began on–air in 2007 and will still make you laugh immoderately. The cast is superb, the plotting magnificent.

Heart and Soul: Living Longer in Lovely Hill (World Service, 9.30am) is an intriguing documentary from Peter Bowes, most often heard in the role of celebrity reporter but, additionally, a thoughtful chronicler of changing times. His canvas today is Loma Linda (the "lovely hill"of the title), part of greater Los Angeles, where residents live up to 10 years longer than most Americans. Could it be because they are Seventh–day Adventists who eat healthily, avoid meat, tobacco and alcohol, take exercise and praise God?

MONDAY

The Kingdom to Come Radio 4FM, 9.45am

Five distinguished guests talk to historian Peter Hennessy about political promises made in advance of the Scottish devolution referendum and the expectations consequently raised both in Scotland and the rest of the UK (notably the English regions). With powerful arguments coming from Manchester and Leeds for less control from Westminster, is the United Kingdom about to split apart? Lord Hennessy's guests are William Hague MP, Leader of the House of Commons; Alistair Darling MP, former Chancellor of the Exchequer; Baroness Onora O'Neill, whose Reith Lectures on honesty were a landmark; Lord Hope, former deputy president of the UK Supreme Court and Lord Butler, former Cabinet Secretary.

The Ideas That Make Us (Radio 4, 1.45pm) brings historian and frequent broadcaster Bettany Hughes to begin this examination of the most influential ideas in human history. And all in 15–minute programmes, each of which begins with a word (today "psyche") and explores its transmutation into everyday usage. This is the first tranche of what will eventually be a 15–part series.

The Invisible Age (Radio 4, 8.00pm) beings a three–part examination of old age. Matthew Sweet, that versatile young shaver, draws on his many friendships with people in their eighties and nineties to ask why such inter–generational connections are rare (not in my experience, Matthew) and why, as a society, we run away from the thought of growing older.

TUESDAY

Breakfast

Radio 3, 6.30am

Radio 3's Breakfast show has been running a carol competition and today we hear the six finalists. The challenge was to set a gentle poem by Susan Hill, Can It Be True? These six were chosen from a distinguished set of entries by an equally impressive panel (it included Master of the Queen's Music Judith Weir and David Hill, chief conductor of the BBC Singers). Now it's up to you. The one that gets most votes from listeners will be announced live on the breakfast show next Tuesday and played again on Christmas Day. Vote on bbc.co.uk/radio3.

Death of an Orchestra (Radio 4FM, 11.30am) is Alan Bennett's personal history of the Yorkshire Symphony Orchestra, founded in the post–war arts optimism of 1947 but disbanded in 1955. Based in Leeds Town Hall and funded by the rates, the YSO had guest conductors including Malcolm Sargent, Thomas Beecham and Adrian Boult. Guest artists included Joan Hammond and Tito Gobbi. To Bennett's schoolboy eyes and ears this was magical, glamorous. The aim was to do for Leeds what the Hallé did for Manchester, but why did this grand scheme fail? Produced by Susan Kenyon for independents Whistledown.

In Suppose I Lose It (Radio 4, 8.00pm) Joan Bakewell, now in her eighties, discusses becoming forgetful. Is this an early sign of dementia? She talks to actor Timothy West and his wife, actress Prunella Scales, who made public her own memory loss this year, about how it's affecting their lives.

WEDNESDAY

At Home Abroad Radio 4, 8.00pm

More than 200million people worldwide move away from the country they were born in. More Britons (4million) live abroad than from any other developed nation, but immigration into Britain from the EU and beyond, is massive. Today more than 13 per cent of the UK population is foreign born, including Michael Goldfarb, presenter of this panel debate. He's American but a long–time London resident, a fine journalist and thoughtful broadcaster. A panel of New Britons discuss what it's like to live in another country, another culture. How can you assimilate? What sort of schools do you choose for your children? What's it like not to feel welcome? Produced by Anthony Denselow.

Steve Wright in the Afternoon (Radio 2, 2.00pm) brings the live finals of the BBC New Comedy Award 2014, with Patrick Kielty introducing the finalists from London's Comedy Store. The competition has been running for the past six months, shared between Radio 2 and Radio 4 Extra, its aim being to find new standup comics. Unusual afternoon fare, I'd say.

On The Folk Show with Mark Radcliffe (Radio 2, 7.00pm) the great but divided Thompson family – father Richard, son Teddy, daughter Kami, son–in–law James Walbourne and grandson Zak Hobbs, with mother Linda contributing – all appear on their album Family. But tonight's live session will be the first time the material has been performed by all the Thompsons in the same room.

THURSDAY

Afternoon Drama: Ebola Radio 4, 2.15pm

An impressive combination of talents and genres combine for this Afternoon Drama. It tells the true story of the 1976 discovery of the deadly Ebola virus in the jungle of Zaire and the battle to contain it before it reached the country's capital, Kinshasa. Mike Walker's play reconstructs the events of 1976, when a Thermos flask containing the blood of a dead Belgian nun was received in Antwerp for study by a small group of young virologists. They identified Ebola then began the fight against it. A young team was flown deep into the rainforest of Zaire to study and, with only rudimentary equipment, combat the disease. The narrator here is one of that team, Peter Piot, then a young trainee virologist based in Antwerp. He went on to run the UN Aids programme and is now Professor Piot, head of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. I sincerely hope the BBC's strong connection with American Public Radio can make this play available in the USA, where Ebola panic runs high and all memory of it being a known disease with known methods of cure appears absent. Directed by Dirk Maggs, produced by independents Perfectly Normal.

Spy Nozy and the Poets (Radio 4 Extra, 11.15am) is a different sort of fact–based drama, about how Wordsworth, Coleridge and their poetic circle became suspected of being spies for Napoleon. The cast is stellar, including Bill Nighy, Graeme Garden, Martin Clunes and John Woodvine.

Friday

Night Is Music Night Radio 2, 8.00pm

A Christmas spectacular, and not just on radio: if your TV has a red button, you can watch it too. Juliet Stevenson and David Harewood read words (Dickens to Benjamin Zephaniah) between carols, music by Prokofiev, Irving Berlin and many others, there's even a medley of Frosty the Snowman, Rudolph the Red–Nosed Reindeer and Jingle Bells, and it's all performed by the BBC Concert Orchestra, conducted by Mike Dixon. Producer Anthony Cherry won't mind a bit if you join in at home.

The Radcliffe and Maconie Show (6 Music, 1.00pm) is at Manchester's Christmas Market, with live music from several groups, including superb folk singers The Unthanks.

Radio 4 opens King Albert's Book at 3.45pm, a three–part account of how Rudyard Kipling, Edith Wharton, Winston Churchill, Thomas Hardy, Emmeline Pankhurst and the Earl of Rosebery were among contributors to a 1914 book dedicated to Albert, King of the Belgians to honour his resistance to German conquerors and raise funds for the Daily Telegraph's Belgium Fund. Readers include Kenneth Cranham and Harriet Walter. Written, produced and narrated by Paul Dodgson for independent Pier Productions.

The Blind Barber (Radio 4 Extra, 11.15am) remembers Donald Sinden, (who died this year) in a characteristically full–blooded star role as the great detective Doctor Fell, on the track of a murderer. The splendid cast also features Clive Swift and Patrick Allen.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141213eacd0009x


News
Sierra Leone bans all Christmas gatherings to halt spread of Ebola
Malcolm Moore
573 words
13 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
20
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
SOLDIERS on the streets will make sure there is no Christmas cheer in Sierra Leone this year, as the Ebola virus continues to spread through west Africa.

"There will be no Christmas and New Year celebrations this year," said Palo Conteh, a former soldier who is the country's defence minister and the head of its Ebola response team.

"We will ensure that everybody remains at home to reflect on Ebola," he said. "Military personnel will be on the streets at Christmas and the New Year to stop any street celebrations."

Sierra Leone has been in a state of emergency since July, which means public gatherings are prohibited. But Mr Conteh said the residents of the Western Area, or Freetown Peninsula, needed to observe the rules strictly or the virus would continue to kill.

More than a quarter of Sierra Leone's six million people are Christian, but the festive season crosses religions, with masquerade processions across the country throughout December.

However, this year's Christmas advertisements have been replaced by public service announcements and businesses are struggling.

"It is hard to have a merry Christmas when you've lost loved ones, and are preoccupied with staying alive; when there's nowhere you can go to drink and be merry, and the very act of doing so seems out of place," wrote Agnes Bangali, who works for the United Nations Population Fund in Sierra Leone, in the International Business Times.

"Having a merry Christmas is not really the priority right now; keeping our people alive to see many more Christmases is. Ebola stole this Christmas; all we can do now is make sure that this never happens again," she added.

Mr Conteh did not say when the ban on Christmas would begin, or whether there would be any exceptions. In previous anti–Ebola curfews, residents have been allowed to leave their homes to worship and for "essential business".

Schools, bars and nightclubs have already been shut down, but there is no general ban at the moment on walking outdoors or working.

Meanwhile, Ernest Bai Koroma, the president, told tribal leaders to stop any rituals that might risk spreading the virus further. "The illness started at the border and now it is in the city and close to 2,000 people have died from the outbreak," he said, adding that the number of cases appeared to be increasing, particularly in the Western Area.

Sierra Leone has now overtaken Liberia as the country worst affected by the virus, after recording 1,319 new infections in the past three weeks. By yesterday, the outbreak had claimed 6,583 lives in total, mainly in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea.

The country's response has been hit by strikes by health care workers over pay and conditions. The Junior Doctors' Association went on strike again this week, demanding a special clinic to treat doctors, 10 of whom have died since the outbreak began. The government has promised to open a clinic for them.

Until recently, the spread of the disease in Sierra Leone was focused on the area around the capital, Freetown. However, the World Health Organisation said this week that it had found 87 bodies piled up at the only hospital in Kono, a district of 350,000 people next to the border with Guinea. The district has since been put under curfew.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141213eacd0005x


Ebola virus: a volunteer's photo diary in pictures
51 words
12 December 2014
08:27 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Dr Felicity Fitzgerald brings us her photo diary of life as a volunteer Ebola worker treating patients in Freetown, Sierra Leone

Dr Felicity Fitzgerald brings us her photo diary of life as a volunteer Ebola worker treating patients in Freetown, Sierra Leone

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141212eacc002ju


FINANCE
Global business leaders join fight against ebola at UN conference
By Telegraph staff
401 words
12 December 2014
08:26 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Companies including GlaxoSmithKline, Arcelor Mittal, Google and Facebook help step up global response to Ebola

Donate to The Telegraph Christmas Charity Appeal[https://telegraph.charitiestrust.org/telegraphappeal.aspx]

Business has a critical role to play in tackling the Ebola virus in Africa and preventing it from spreading, a ground-breaking conference at the United Nations has been told.

Executives from international companies including GlaxoSmithKline, Arcelor Mittal, Google and Facebook met with leaders from organisations including the World Health Organisation (WHO) and Unicef at the UN’s New York headquarters on Thursday to examine how industry has stepped in to help fight the disease[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/a/11287470] .

They also sought to identify ways to improve current efforts to combat Ebola – which WHO data shows has claimed 6,373 lives in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone[http://www.who.int.proxy.bc.edu/mediacentre/factsheets/fs103/en/] – and to try to make sure the world is better prepared for future outbreaks.

One of the conference’s key sessions looked at how information technology can be utilised in the fight against Ebola.

One organisation doing this is the Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative[http://masangahospital.org/masanga-mentor-ebola-initiative/] (MMEI), a joint effort between the UK-supported hospital in Sierra Leone and the Mentor Initiative, a British non-governmental organisation, established in Liberia, with international training experience and contacts worldwide.

MMEI, which is being backed by The Telegraph Christmas Charity Appeal, uses technology perfected in the video games industry to produce computer training for people in Ebola-affected areas. The system uses interactive programmes that can be understood in local languages and make use of animation to help where adult literacy rates are low.

As well as teaching locals how to respond to the virus, it also teaches infection control to prevent its spread.

Nicolas Mellor, MMEI’s co-founder, said: “The conference is hugely encouraging because it shows international businesses are getting involved and our initiative is a microcosm of what they are trying to achieve there.”

Mr Mellor said the early international response to Ebola failed to understand the scale of outbreak and the threat it posed but the fact that major global companies are now involved shows the risks are now understood.

“The problem with international humanitarian response in the past is that once they move on to the next crisis they tend to leave a vacuum,” he added. “It’s important to create a sustainable legacy and that’s what MMEI is doing.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141211eacb005k2


All praise the unsexy Christmas jumper
By Claire Cohen
589 words
12 December 2014
08:30 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Fancy dress for women usually means ‘less is more’, but not the mighty Christmas jumper. Oh no. We can all pull them on and look like utter pillocks together, writes one very happy Claire Cohen

Jingle bells. Red noses. Glittery balls. Yes, folks, it’s that time of year. Dig out your Christmas jumper and let the vulgarity contest begin.

In offices and pubs up and down the land, we’re embarking on the most flammable fortnight of the year. This is probably not what Prince Albert had in mind when be brought German Christmas traditions to Britain.

But hark.

Because there’s something different about the Christmas jumper. Namely: it’s the only seasonal garment that truly levels the playing field between the sexes.

Think about it. Halloween costumes for women usually amount to little more than a basque and a pair of cats ears[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/women/womens-life/11193136/Halloween-fancy-dress-costumes-to-avoid-Sexy-Ebola-suits-and-bloodied-cheerleaders.html] ( or a sexy Ebola costume, should you so wish[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/women/womens-life/11193136/Halloween-fancy-dress-costumes-to-avoid-Sexy-Ebola-suits-and-bloodied-cheerleaders.html] ).

Indeed, fancy dress for women in general screams ‘less is more’. If we want to join in, we’re usually expected to ‘look good’ at the same time. Think Bridget Jones in full Playboy Bunny garb at a tarts and vicars party, and you’ll have some idea of what I’m talking about.

But not the Christmas jumper. Oh no. We can all pull them on and look like utter pillocks together. This is banter that women can get involved with.

Google the term ‘sexy Christmas jumper’ and what do you get? Not much actually, unless you count this charming chap sporting his festive tank top.

This might just be the one thing left out there for women when it comes to costumes. They’re androgynous (as well as cosy) and I can’t praise them highly enough.

(Full disclosure: mine is a sweatshirt, featuring two large golden bells and the words ‘Ringin’ in the Season’).

More than that, they’ve changed the entire concept of Christmas party dressing. The pages of fashion magazines might still be packed with sparkly gowns, but who’s actually buying them? Last year’s January sales amounted to racks and racks of unwanted sequins. It’s no longer cool to try hard. Wearing a Christmas jumper is not only equalising, but it screams nonchalance, irony and laidback fun. They’re also a conversation starter like nothing else you will ever wear.

And you can buy them EVERYWHERE. This is a good thing. At a time when we’re all running round the shops with sweaty palms, the last thing we need is to be tracking down the perfect sweater. (Although if you can manage a ‘vintage’ example I’d recommend it. A friend recently purchased a white 1980s number, complete with wintry skiing scene and original gravy stain. I’m yet to see it bettered).

They also take the focus away from women’s bodies in a positive way. See someone wearing a Christmas jumper and you don’t think about their figure. You only want to read the slogan or look at the flashing lights.

Of course, there are a few unsavoury versions out there[http://www.fancydressball.co.uk/christmas-fancy-dress/novelty-and-rude-christmas-jumpers.htm#nf] – a handful of elves knitting away in Santa’s’ sexist workshop, determined to spoil our fun.

Exhibits A and B:

Thankfully, by and large, these have been met with contempt from men and women.

Because, underneath it all, we understand the true spirit of the Christmas jumper. It’s the secret to their enduring popularity: goodwill to all man – and woman – kind.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141212eacc0030s


Ebola Diary: Christmas cancelled for Ebola doctors?
By Dr Felicity Fitzgerald
673 words
12 December 2014
06:56 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Dr Felicity Fitzgerald was looking forward to coming home for Christmas. Then the British government changed the rules.

You may remember the joyful dancing man [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/11253404/Ebola-diary-Eight-days-in-an-Ebola-ward-before-test-proves-negative.html] who received a negative Ebola test result a fortnight ago. The story has a sad postscript. He returned two days later, weeping. He had been turned out of his house and rejected by his family - cast out for causing too much potential risk to his relatives.

Ebola stigma is insidious and ubiquitous. Many of our local staff finish their long, grueling and potentially dangerous shifts in the unit to return to homes where their families refuse to sit in the same room as them. They face constant pressure to find a more socially acceptable job.

And yet they return day after day - smiling and energetic: “How de morning Pikin Doctor?” I'm not sure that, without the unstinting support and positivity of my team, friends and family at home, I would show the same determination.

Several of my international colleagues have not been as lucky as me. Friends out here have been de-invited to weddings, had family Christmas celebrations surreptitiously cancelled and politely asked to vacate their rooms for the three week incubation period.

Being both superstitious and hugely risk averse (I am probably the most risk averse person ever to have worked in an Ebola Isolation Unit - I won’t cycle in London and am a great fan of completely unnecessary insurance policies) I empathise with the fear.

It is true that there is much we don’t know about Ebola. However we do understand how the virus is transmitted.

To catch Ebola, there must be contact between infected bodily fluids (vomit, blood etc) and the mucous membranes (eyes, mouth, genitals) or broken skin. It is not like flu, where you sneeze and the whole carriage is infected.

This means that when I come back, unless I lick your face or some how manage to throw up on you, you will be fine. Early in the disease, when the fever first develops, you are highly unlikely to be contagious.

This is exemplified by Dr Craig Spencer, the MSF doctor who fell sick on his return to New York. He was strongly criticized at the time for his apparently risky “E-bowling” and jogging, although he was following agreed protocols for symptom monitoring. He was living with his fiancée - and after a few months separation I can’t imagine there was no bodily fluid exchange… And yet she was, and is, fine.

Even in the case of Thomas Duncan, disastrously sent home from hospital with antibiotics to get progressively sicker at home in a house full of his relatives, the disease was not passed on to them.

Public Health England guidelines for returning health workers have just changed. Anyone who has had any contact with Ebola patients, regardless of whether they were wearing full protective equipment or not is now going to be “Category 3” or high risk. That means, for example, we are only allowed to travel “locally” for no more than an hour.

This is bizarre, arbitrary, and does not appear to be based on any new scientific evidence. Rather, it appears based on fear. Just when I thought I might get a hug or two on my return home, it feels like the government is edging me towards quarantine…

It would feel a bit ironic coming home for Christmas to see my family and ending up corralled with all my colleagues out here who had similar plans… We'd have a damn good party I guess. No bodily fluids though.

Felicity Fitzgerald qualified as a doctor in 2006. She is paediatrician studying for a PhD in infectious diseases at the UCL Institute of Child Health. A month ago she volunteered to work in Freetown with the King's Sierra Leone Partnership and is working at the Connaught Hospital Ebola Isolation Unit. This is her diary.

You can donate to the Partnership appeal here[https://secure.artezglobal.com/registrant/donate.aspx?eventid=30103] .

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141212eacc002e5


News
'Tis the season to get your revenge at last
Daily Telegraph Reporter
286 words
12 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
7
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
THE average person crosses five names off their Christmas card list in revenge at perceived slights received during the year, it has been found.

Those living in Yorkshire are the most likely to strike someone off their list, while Londoners are the most likely to be offended by not receiving a card, a poll conducted by Oxfam, which produces charity cards, found.

People in the Midlands are the most popular, receiving 33 cards on average. Northerners send an average of 30, Southerners send 28.

In Coventry, 90 per cent of residents are sending out cards this year, the highest proportion of anywhere in Britain.

But one in three people in the city said they had unexpectedly stopped receiving a card from a friend or relative and almost half had felt upset or disappointed.

People from the South are most likely to send a charity Christmas card, while those in Birmingham are most likely to send a cheap card if someone has sent them a cheap one first.

Oxfam is reporting an unexpected 23 per cent rise in Christmas card sales this year.

Andrew Horton, the charity's trading director, said: "In this digital era it's wonderful that Christmas cards are still close to the hearts of many people.

"We've been really heartened by the fact that nearly half of the people we surveyed said they choose charity Christmas cards above others."

He added: "Christmas cards are an incredibly important source of income for Oxfam.

"The money raised during the festive period could play a vital role in helping Oxfam prevent the spread of Ebola in West Africa."

Editorial Comment: Page 27

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141212eacc0005u


News
Industry leaders at UN conference plan ways to fight Ebola
181 words
12 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
3
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
BUSINESS has a critical role to play in tackling the Ebola virus in Africa and preventing it from spreading, a groundbreaking conference at the United Nations has been told.

Executives from international companies including GlaxoSmithKline, Arcelor Mittal, Google and Facebook met with leaders from the World Health Organisation and Unicef at the UN's New York headquarters yesterday to examine how industry has stepped in to help fight the disease. They also sought to identify ways to improve current efforts to combat Ebola – which WHO data shows has claimed 6,373 lives in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.

One of the conference's key sessions looked at how IT technology can be used in the fight against Ebola.

One organisation doing this is the Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative, which is being backed by The Telegraph Christmas Charity Appeal. MMEI is a joint effort between the UK–supported hospital in Sierra Leone and the Mentor Initiative, a British non–governmental organisation, established in Liberia, with international training experience and contacts worldwide.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141212eacc0000m


Facebook's the new fight club and I loathe it
By Emma Barnett
711 words
11 December 2014
01:20 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Why are people having their most political fights on Facebook now instead of a good old-fashioned bust up face-to-face, asks Emma Barnett

“Emma, can I just ask, why did you defriend me? Did I do something wrong?” This, it has to be said, was one of the most awkward messages I’ve ever received.

It arrived after I’d taken the decision to “defriend” – Facebook parlance for delete – this particular man from my social media world. It was mainly because I was sick of his relentless posting of graphic war zones snaps and nonsensical political histrionics.

Over the past two years I have done the same to many other people – including defriending family members who quite frankly can be spared the photos of me struggling to focus as I drunkenly gnaw on some late night KFC – but until this summer no one had ever challenged me about it.

“Oh no, you’ve done nothing wrong,” I replied, disingenuously. “I just wanted to have a bit of a clear out of people whom I don’t see in the real world anymore.” Oof. Needless to say, I heard no more from Mr Graphic Photo.

But rants like his are exactly what you’ll find clogging up your news feed on the world’s most popular social network these days. According to Facebook’s data whizzes, the Scottish referendum was the most talked about topic in the UK during 2014 [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/facebook/11282717/Scottish-referendum-most-discussed-UK-Facebook-topic-of-2014.html] . That’s right: Alex Salmond’s failed bid for supreme power was the most discussed event on the site all year [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/scottish-independence/11098281/More-than-10-million-Facebook-interactions-relating-to-Scottish-referendum.html] . Not a silly cat with his head in a sandwich or some other jolly inanity. Facebook has gone and got all serious on us.

Other events that Facebook users have loved to rant about this year include the outbreak of the Ebola virus, the death of Robin Williams, the First World War centenary and the latest conflict in Gaza. My feed was choked with people rowing about almost every aspect of the Israeli incursion. Sadly, it was far from an edifying read.

The trouble is Facebook is now playing host to the extremes of people’s emotions and opinions. Not one of my pals was arguing over the Gaza conflict in any meaningful way. It was just digital war. Thus did the great Gaza defriending commence.

And while the prevalence of serious news being discussed indicates the ageing demographic of the Facebook crew, it also highlights how social media has become a safe space for people to vent their spleen in a way they don’t often dare in polite British company.

I’ve seen jokes about the rapist footballer, Ched Evans [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/women/womens-life/11225607/Ched-Evans-must-be-rehabilitated-but-not-like-this.-Sheffield-United-must-listen.html],made by pals who would never utter such things aloud at dinner. I’ve spied “banter” from my Lefty mates about killing David Cameron. And don’t get me started on the hate reserved for Nigel Farage. I’m no Ukip fan – but it is gruesome stuff.

All of this fiery content is still incongruously interspersed around the usual lame Facebook piffle. And while I accept that more opinionated content makes for less sycophantic reading than the baby guff and pets videos, I would far rather we rowed about the serious issues of the day in person – instead of pussyfooting around them in our quintessentially British way and sneaking off to vent our passions on the noiseless internet.

Call me a purist, (and I can’t believe I’m going to say this) – but I miss the Facebook and social media of old. You knew where you were with Facebook 1.0 et al: “humble” self-promotion, silly dogs on skateboards and photos of everyone tanked up.

As the popularity of the Scottish referendum shows, Facebook’s grown old and cantankerous with its maturing users. It’s high-time the social network introduced the 'dislike' button and fast. Defriending is no longer enough.

Top 10 UK Facebook topics of 2014

1. Scottish Referendum

2. Ice Bucket Challenge

3. World Cup

4. Premier League title race

5. Conflict in Gaza

6. Robin Williams

7. Louis van Gaal takes over at Manchester United

8. Ebola virus outbreak

9. Champions League Final

10. First World War Centenary

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141211eacb00106


Editorial; Opinion, Columns
Raging beasts lurk amid the Facebook pet videos
EMMA BARIVETT
643 words
11 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
20
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
'Rmma, can I just ask, why did you defriend me? Did I do something wrong?" This, it has to be said, was one of the most awkward messages I've ever received.

It arrived after I'd taken the decision to "defriend" – Facebook parlance for delete – this particular man from my social media world. It was mainly because I was sick of his relentless posting of graphic war–zone snaps and nonsensical political histrionics.

Over the past two years I have done the same to many other people – including defriending family members who, quite frankly, can be spared the photos of me struggling to focus as I drunkenly gnaw on some late–night KFC – but until this summer no one had ever challenged me about it.

"Oh no, you've done nothing wrong," I replied, disingenuously. "I just wanted to have a bit of a clear out of people whom I don't see in the real world any more." Oof. Needless to say, I heard no more from Mr Graphic Photo.

But rants like his are exactly what you'll find clogging up your news feed on the world's most popular social network these days. According to Facebook's data whizzes, the Scottish referendum was the most talked about topic in Britain during 2014. That's right: Alex Salmond's failed attempt at supreme power was the most discussed event on the site all year. Not a silly cat with his head in a sandwich or some other inanity. Facebook has gone and got all serious on us.

Other events that Facebookers have loved to rant about this year include the outbreak of the Ebola virus, the death of Robin Williams, the First World War centenary and the latest conflict in Gaza. My feed was choked with people rowing about almost every aspect of the Israeli incursion. Sadly, it was far from an edifying read.

The trouble is that Facebook is now playing host to the extremes of people's emotions and opinions. Not one of my pals was arguing over the Gaza conflict in any meaningful way. It was just digital war. Thus did the great Gaza defriending commence.

And while the prevalence of serious news being discussed indicates the ageing demographic of the Facebook crew, it also highlights how social media has become a safe space for people to vent their spleen in a way they don't often dare in polite British company.

I've seen jokes about the rapist footballer, Ched Evans, made by pals who would never utter such things aloud at dinner. I've spied "banter" from my Lefty mates about killing David Cameron. And don't get me started on the hate reserved for Nigel Farage. I'm no Ukip fan – but it is gruesome stuff.

All of this fiery content is still incongruously interspersed around the usual lame Facebook stuff. And while I accept that more opinionated material makes for less sycophantic reading than the baby guff and pet videos, I would far rather we rowed about the serious issues of the day in person – instead of pussyfooting around them in our quintessentially British way and sneaking off to vent our passions on the internet.

Call me a purist (and I can't believe I'm going to say this) – but I miss the Facebook and social media of old. You knew where you were with Facebook 1.0 et al: "humble" selfpromotion, silly dogs on skateboards and photos of everyone tanked up.

As the popularity of the Scottish referendum shows, Facebook's grown old and cantankerous with its maturing users. It's high time the social network introduced the "dislike" button and fast. Defriending is no longer enough.

Comment on Emma Barnett's view at telegraph.co.uk/comment

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141211eacb00040


Business
Price could hit more than £3,200 a ton as demand soars
Peter Spence
256 words
11 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
2; National
4
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Cocoa crisis

Soaring demand from Asian consumers, and increasing Western appetite for darker chocolate could result in a major supply shortage in 2015.

If suppliers cannot expand demand, then Saxo Bank predicts that the price of chocolate's key ingredient – cocoa – might rise to more than $5,000 (£3,200) a ton, well above its latest high of $3,318 per ton.

Cocoa output has already been struck by difficulties in 2014, as the deadly Ebola virus has taken a heavy human and economic toll on west African nations.

The region is responsible for 70pc of global cocoa production, and fears that this year's epidemic would worsen and spread led to a spike in prices of the raw material in September, rising close to $3,400 a tonne.

Saxo Bank's forecast is one of its so–called "outrageous predictions" for next year, an event which is unlikely, but that represents an under–appreciated risk.

Steen Jakobsen, the bank's chief economist, said that generating these ideas give investors "a chance to stress test their assumptions about the future and what these events might mean for their own investments".

Peter Spence

UK housing sector to crash by 25pc

Japanese inflation to hit 5pc

China devalues yuan 20pc

Mario Draghi quits European Central Bank

Russia defaults again

Volcanic eruption hits Europe's summer

High–yield corporate bond spreads double

UK heads for 2017 exit from European Union following Ukip election landslide

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141211eacb0002e


FINANCE
A looming chocolate supply crisis, and nine other risks for 2015
By Peter Spence Economics Correspondent
430 words
10 December 2014
10:16 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Soaring cocoa prices, internet Armageddon, major volcanic eruptions, and a collapse in London house prices may all happen next year, according to Saxo Bank's annual "outrageous" predictions

Soaring demand from Asian consumers, and increasing Western appetite for darker chocolate could result in a major supply shortage in 2015.

If suppliers cannot expand demand, then Saxo Bank predicts that the price of chocolate’s key ingredient - cocoa - might rise to more than $5,000 (£3,200) a tonne, well above its latest high of $3,318 per tonne.

Cocoa output has already been struck by difficulties in 2014, as the deadly Ebola virus has taken a heavy human and economic toll on west African nations.

The region is responsible for 70pc of global cocoa production, and fears that this year’s epidemic would worsen and spread led to a spike in prices of the raw material[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11145266/What-chocolate-prices-tell-us-about-the-spread-of-Ebola.html] in September, rising close to $3,400 a tonne.

Saxo Bank’s forecast is one of its so-called “outrageous predictions” for next year, an event which is unlikely, but that represents an under-appreciated risk.

Steen Jakobsen, chief economist at Saxo Bank, said that generating these ideas - including a Russian default, major volcanic eruptions, and internet Armageddon - give investors “a chance to stress test their assumptions about the future and what these events might mean for their own investments”.

While the bank's forecasts have been specifically chosen for the low probability of actually coming true, some have materialised in the past.

Successful predictions include a bet that gold would sink to $1,200 an ounce.

"2015 will be a tough year, but potentially also the year we look back at as the low point in everything", said Mr Jakobsen. "Inflation has fallen to its lowest in decades, interest rates have followed and energy prices are sharply lower."

A lack of volatility has resulted in a cosy consensus in financial markets, Mr Jakobsen suggested, which "has given investors a false sense of security and that could lead to the biggest upset in 2015".

More “outrageous predictions” that might come true in 2015

1. UK housing sector to crash by 25pc

2. Japanese inflation to hit 5pc

3. China devalues yuan 20pc

4. Mario Draghi quits European Central Bank

5. Russia defaults again

6. Internet hacks smash e-commerce

7. Volcanic eruption cancels Europe’s summer

8. UK seen leaning toward 2017 exit from the EU on Ukip election landslide

9. High-yield corporate bond spreads double

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141210eaca0030g


NEWS
Ebola fighters win TIME Person of the Year
By Jessica Winch
255 words
10 December 2014
09:06 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
TIME magazine awards 2014 Person of the Year to the "Ebola fighters"

The people involved in fighting Ebola have been named TIME magazine's 2014 Person of the Year.

The magazine praised the men and women who were willing to "stand and fight" against the virus, which has infected more than 17,800 people, most in Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone.

Editor Nancy Gibbs said: "The rest of the world can sleep at night because a group of men and women are willing to stand and fight.

"For tireless acts of courage and mercy, for buying the world time to boost its defences, for risking, for persisting, for sacrificing and saving, the Ebola fighters are TIME’s 2014 Person of the Year."

The "Ebola fighters" include doctors, medical relief workers, nurses, ambulance drivers and burial teams.

The principle of the TIME award is “the person or persons who most affected the news and our lives, for good or ill, and embodied what was important about the year.”

The Ferguson protesters, who took to the streets following the fatal shooting of unarmed black teenager Michael Brown by a white police officer, were runners-up, followed by Russian president Vladimir Putin.

Other finalists included Alibaba founder Jack Ma and pop star Taylor Swift.

Do you agree with TIME magazine's 2014 Person of the Year?[http://polldaddy.com/poll/8513449/]

Last year, Pope Francis was awarded the title for pulling "the papacy out of the palace and into the streets".

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141210eaca002mr


Asteroid strike: 7 ways the world could end
By Michael Hanlon
1500 words
10 December 2014
06:54 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
As a mountain-sized asteroid is detected heading towards Earth, what is the likeliest 'extinction-level' scenario for mankind?

Our solar system is littered with billions of pieces of debris, from the size of large boulders to objects hundreds of miles across. We know that from time to time these hit our Earth. Now, a Russian scientist has calculated that a mountain-sized asteroid[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/science/space/11283886/Mountain-sized-asteroid-is-heading-towards-Earth-says-scientist.html] - which crosses paths with the Earth every three years - could one day hit us with an explosion 1,000 times greater than the surprise 2013 impact of a bus-sized meteor in Russia[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/science/space/9873752/Russian-meteor-visits-shock-and-awe-on-Chelyabinsk.html] .

This is not the only Doomsday scenario faced by our planet. Humanity may have already created its own nemesis, according to Professor Stephen Hawking[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/news/11268738/Artificial-intelligence-could-mean-end-of-human-race-says-Stephen-Hawking.html] . The Cambridge University physicist claimed that new developments in the field of artificial intelligence (AI)[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/news/11268738/Artificial-intelligence-could-mean-end-of-human-race-says-Stephen-Hawking.html] mean that within a few decades, computers thousands of times more powerful than in existence today may decide to usurp their creators and effectively end humanity’s 100,000-year dominance of Earth.

This ‘Terminator’ scenario[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/culturevideo/filmvideo/cinema-trailers/11271269/Terminator-Genisys-watch-the-teaser-trailer.html] is taken seriously by many scientists and technologists. Before Professor Hawking made his remarks, Elon Musk, the genius behind the Tesla electric car and PayPal, has stated that “with artificial intelligence, we are summoning the demon”, comparing it unfavourably with nuclear war as the most potent threat to humanity’s existence.

Aside from the rise of the machines, many potential threats have been identified to our species, our civilisation or even our planet itself. To keep you awake at night, here are seven of the most plausible.

1. Asteroid strike

Sixty-five million years ago, an object, possibly a comet a few times larger than the one landed on by the Philae probe[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/science/space/11238049/Rosetta-mission-new-images-show-Philae-bouncing-across-comet.html] last month, hit the Mexican coast and triggered a global winter that wiped out the dinosaurs. And in 1908, a smaller object hit a remote part of Siberia and devastated hundreds of square miles of forest. Last week, 100 scientists, including Lord Martin Rees, the Astronomer Royal called for the creation of a global warning system[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/11272393/Asteroids-could-wipe-out-humanity-warn-Richard-Dawkins-and-Brian-Cox.html] to alert us if a killer rock is on the way.

Probability: Remote in our lifetime, but one day we will be hit.

Result: There has been no strike big enough to wipe out all life on Earth – an “extinction-level event” – for at least 3bn years. But a dino-killer would certainly be the end of our civilisation and possibly our species.

2. Artificial intelligence

Professor Hawking is not worried about armies of autonomous drones taking over the world[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s0f3JeDVeEo#nf], but something more subtle – and more sinister. Some technologists believe that an event they call The Singularity is only a few decades away. This is a point at which the combined networked computing power of the world’s AI systems begins a massive, runaway increase in capability – an explosion in machine intelligence. By then, we will probably have handed over control to most of our vital systems, from food distribution networks to power plants, sewage and water treatment works and the global banking system. The machines could bring us to our knees without a shot being fired. And we cannot simply pull the plug, because they control the power supplies.

Probability: Unknown – although computing power is doubling every 18 months. We do not know if machines can be conscious or “want” to do anything, and sceptics point out that the cleverest computers in existence are currently no brighter than cockroaches.

Result: If the Web wakes up and wants to sweep us aside, we may have a fight on our hands (perhaps even something similar to the man vs machines battle in the Terminator films[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nSZVxTtDeOI#nf] ). But it is unlikely that the machines will want to destroy the planet – they live here, too.

3. A genetically created plague

Possibly the most terrifying short-term threat – because it is so plausible. The reason Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] has not become a worldwide plague - and will not do so - is because it is so hard to transmit, and because it incapacitates and kills its victims so quickly. However, a modified version of the disease that can be transmitted through the air, or which allows its host to travel around for weeks, symptom-free, could kill many millions. It is unknown whether any terror group has the knowledge or facilities to do something like this, but it is chilling to realise that the main reason we understand ebola so well is that its potential to be weaponised was quickly realised by defence experts.

Probability: Someone will probably try it one day.

Result: Potentially catastrophic. “Ordinary” infectious diseases such as avian flu strains have the capability to wipe out hundreds of millions of people.

4. Nuclear war

Still the most plausible ‘doomsday’ scenario. Despite arms limitations treaties, there are more than 15,000 nuclear warheads and bombs in existence – enough, in theory, to kill every human on Earth several times over. Even a small nuclear war[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NHWjlCaIrQo#nf] has the potential to cause widespread devastation. In 2011, a study by NASA scientists concluded that a limited atomic war between India and Pakistan involving just 100 Hiroshima-sized detonations would throw enough dust into the air to cause temperatures to drop more than 1.2C globally for a decade.

Probability: High. Nine states have nuclear weapons, and more want to join the nuclear club. The nuclear wannabees are not paragons of democracy.

Result: It is unlikely that even a global nuclear war between Russia and Nato would wipe us all out, but it would kill billions and wreck the world economy for a century. A regional war, we now know, could have effects far beyond the borders of the conflict.

5. Particle accelerator disaster

Before the Large Hadron Collider, the massive machine at CERN in Switzerland that detected the Higgs Boson a couple of years ago, was switched on, there was a legal challenge from a German scientist called Otto Rossler who claimed the atom-smasher could theoretically create a small black hole[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/2650665/Legal-bid-to-stop-CERN-atom-smasher-from-destroying-the-world.html] by mistake – which would then go on to eat the Earth.

The claim was absurd: the collisions in the LHC are far less energetic than the natural collisions caused by impacting cosmic rays hitting the planet. But it is possible that, one day, a souped-up version of the LHC could create something that destroys the planet – or even the universe – at the speed of light.

Probability: Very low indeed.

Result: Potentially devastating, but don’t bother cancelling the house insurance just yet.

6. 'God' reaches for the off-switch

Many scientists have pointed out that there is something fishy about our universe. The physical constants – the numbers governing the fundamental forces and masses of nature – seem fine-tuned to allow life of some form to exist. The great physicist Sir Fred Hoyle[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/obituaries/1338125/Professor-Sir-Fred-Hoyle.html] once wondered if the Universe might be a “put-up job”.

More recently, the Oxford University philosopher Nick Bostrom has speculated that our Universe may be one of countless “simulations” running in some alien computer, much like a computer game. If so, we have to hope that the beings behind our fake universe are benign – and do not reach for the off-button should we start misbehaving.

Probability: According to Bostrom’s calculations, if certain assumptions are made then there is a greater than 50 per cent chance that our universe is not real. And the increasingly puzzling absence of any evidence of alien life may be indirect evidence that the Universe is not what it seems.

Result: Catastrophic – if the gamers turn against us. The only consolation is the knowledge that there is absolutely nothing we can do about it.

7. Climate catastrophe

Almost no serious scientists now doubt that human carbon emissions are having an effect on the planet’s climate. The latest report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change suggested that containing temperature rises to below 2C above the pre-industrial average is now unlikely, and that we face a future 3 or 4 degrees warmer than today.

This will not literally be the end of the world – but humanity will need all the resources at its disposal to cope with such a dramatic shift. Unfortunately, the effects of climate change will start to really kick in just at the point when human population is expected to peak – at about 9bn by the middle of this century. Millions, of mostly poor people, face losing their homes to sea-level rises (by up to a metre or more by 2100) and shifting weather patterns may disrupt agriculture dramatically.

Probability: It is now almost certain that CO2 levels will keep rising to 600 parts per million and beyond. And it is equally certain that the climate will respond accordingly.

Result: Catastrophic in some places, less so in others (including northern Europe, where temperature rises will be moderated by the Atlantic). The good news is that unlike most of the disasters here, we have a chance to do something about climate change now.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141207eac7000s9


News
Geldof's strong words for critics
173 words
10 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
12
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Bob Geldof has said that Band Aid's critics can "f––– off" and told William Pooley, the Ebola survivor who spoke out against the single, that he needs to relax.

Mr Pooley, a nurse, contracted the disease in Sierra Leone and has since recovered. This week he criticised the record, saying it implied Africans did not know it was Christmas. "It's Africa, not another planet. That sort of cultural ignorance is a bit cringeworthy. There's a lyric about 'death in every tear'. It's a bit much," he told Radio Times.

On hearing his comment, Mr Geldof said: "Please. It's a pop song. Relax." Others to criticise the song include Emeli Sandé, who sang on Band Aid 30 but later said she thought the lyrics needed changing.

Mr Geldof responded: "It's a pop song, it's not a doctoral thesis. They can f––– off." He added: "They're more than welcome to be offended by me. I couldn't give a toss."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141210eaca00043


NEWS
People smugglers using Facebook to recruit migrants
By Nick Squires on board the Rio Mino Spanish coast guard vessel
1069 words
9 December 2014
08:30 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
People smugglers are turning to Facebook to attract customers wanting to get into Europe, writes Nick Squires on patrol in the Mediterranean

People smugglers in North Africa are using Facebook and other social media to recruit clients from across the Middle East and Africa as they turn the business of sending desperate refugees across the Mediterranean into a multi-billion pound operation.

Encouraged by the huge profits to be made, traffickers have sent a record 150,000 refugees on boats to Italy so far this year, with fears that next year the number will be matched or even surpassed.

Thousands have died as their often unseaworthy and overloaded boats got into difficulties and sank. Last week, 17 people trying to make the crossing were found frozen to death on three boats spotted by the Italian navy.

Eight children including twins were among 29 migrants feared to have drowned in a separate incident when their boat from Morocco was hit by strong waves in a storm off the coast of Spain.

The smugglers have established a human trafficking network that extends deep into the Sahara, where Libyan militias charge refugees for safe passage through the desert.

European officials say criminal gangs use maritime tracking websites to identify the location of military and civilian ships in the Mediterranean, banking on the vessels rescuing the boats full of hundreds of refugees that they put to sea.

“There are Facebook pages that advertise the smugglers’ services. They are using all sorts of digital means, including social media, to expand their operations,” said Ewa Moncure, a spokeswoman for Frontex, the European Union’s border control agency. “They’ve become very well organised and they’re very adaptable.”

She spoke to The Telegraph on board the Rio Mino, a Spanish coast guard vessel that is part of a new EU operation that started patrolling the Mediterranean on November 1.

The EU effort involves ships, aircraft and helicopters from Spain, Portugal, Finland, the Netherlands and other countries.

Britain elected not to contribute, with the government arguing that the operation would only encourage refugees to make the crossing.

The Frontex operation supersedes a much larger, year-long Italian humanitarian operation called Mare Nostrum (“Our Sea” in Latin) which Rome shut down on Oct 31, saying it was costing too much to run.

At 3 million euros (£2.4 million) a month, the EU operation’s budget is just a third of what the Italians were spending.

The smaller scale of the EU initiative has led to fears that it will be unable to rescue all the boats trying to reach Italy and that many more people are likely to be lost at sea when their boats break down or capsize.

The smugglers’ adoption of modern technology to expand their business is in stark contrast to the conditions on board the boats, where poorer migrants – invariably black Africans – are locked into the holds, evoking images of the 19th century slave trade.

Not even women and children are spared. If the boats capsize, they have no chance of survival.

This year alone, an estimated 3,000 people died trying to reach Italian shores – five times as many as in 2013, according to the United Nations refugee agency.

“It really is like the slave ships,” said Ms Moncure. “Africans are packed into the hold because they can’t afford to pay for a space on deck. If the boat goes down, forget it – you die.”

While sub-Saharan Africans are charged around £500 for a place in the bowels of the boat, wealthier refugees, particularly middle-class Syrians, pay £1,500 to ensure a spot on deck. Food, water and life jackets cost extra.

Refugees are typically traumatised when they are eventually rescued, particularly young children and pregnant women, said Jose Maria Duenas, the commander of the Rio Mino, which has a crew of 25.

“We bring them on board and give them water, fruit juice and biscuits,” he said. “We have an infirmary for those that need medical care.”

The crew are also on the lookout for any potential Ebola cases, and wear protective suits, goggles and gloves to protect themselves against the highly-contagious disease.

If smugglers are found among the refugees, they are locked up in metal cells in the ship’s hold until they can be handed over to the Italian police on land.

The EU ships and aircraft have rescued around 2,000 people this month, while the Italians - who despite ending Mare Nostrum are still required to patrol a large search and rescue area – have rescued another 3,000.

In past year, the exodus of unseaworthy boats stops when the winter weather draws in because storms and high winds make the crossing too dangerous.

But this year, the boats have just kept coming, setting sail whenever there is a break in the weather.

The record number of refugees this year has been driven by the war in Syria but also by the vast profits that smugglers in Libya are making and the fact that they can operate with impunity in what is effectively a failed state.

“The absence of the rule of law in Libya since the fall of Gaddafi appears to have created near-perfect operating conditions for the criminal gangs,” Frontex said in a recent report.

A boat-load of 500 people can net the smugglers a profit of £800,000.

It is a no-risk venture because there is almost zero chance that they will be arrested in Libya, where the police and coast guard barely function amid bitter fighting between militias.

“To maintain order on unstable vessels, passengers moving about without permission are typically beaten or, in one case, stabbed to death. Others have simply been thrown overboard,” Frontex said.

The EU operation is due to end in January, but is likely to be extended.

There is no resolution in sight to the root causes of the deadly human trade, from conflict in Syria and Iraq to war and poverty in sub-Saharan Africa and the breakdown of law and order in Libya.

“The politicians need to find a deal with Libya to solve this problem,” said Commander Duenas. “But Libya right now is in chaos, so the boats will keep coming, and we’ll be here to rescue them.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141209eac9002e5


NEWS
We stovepipe too much management jargon, admits spymaster
By Matthew Holehouse Political Correspondent
740 words
9 December 2014
01:21 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Jon Day, one of Britain's most senior intelligence officials, is rebuked by MPs for 'Yes, Minister' management jargon

He has a licence to baffle.

One of Britain’s most senior spy chiefs has admitted that his work is laced with incomprehensible American management jargon.

Jon Day, the Chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee, was accused by MPs of inhabiting a “2014 episode of Yes Minister” after instructing them on stovepipes, back-casting and horizon scanning.

Mr Day’s role involves presenting critical intelligence gathered by MI5 and MI6 to the Prime Minister.

He also chairs Whitehall’s Horizon Planning Oversight Group, tasked with predicting how trends and threats such as new diseases, nano-technology and the rise of social media will change Britain decades into the future.

But in exchanges before the Commons Public Administration Select Committee, MPs said they found the work of the group impenetrable.

Asked to describe how he could improve his work, Mr Day told the Committee: “Each department has its own horizon scanning policy development machinery. If I was to identify the first risk, it is this work is stove-piped.”

Also giving evidence to the inquiry on Whitehall's future, Campbell McCafferty, director of the Civil Contingencies Secretariat, described how senior officials can hold meetings before disasters strike.

He told the committee: “That mechanism starts before the disruptive challenge. Some of the stove-piping is broken down to get departments together about the issues that are approaching.”

Rear Admiral John Kingwell, who runs the Ministry of Defence’s Concepts and Doctrine Centre which seeks to predict the future of warfare, said his committee would conduct “deep dives and experimentation to consider the ‘so-whats’ for defence and security”.

Greg Mulholland, a Liberal Democrat MP, had had enough.

“I hope the panel can understand some of the cynicism that has already been expressed,” he said.

“I just look at some of the documents we’ve had, some historic and some current. Now it’s all about horizon scanning, trend analysis, road mapping, visioning, gaming, back-casting and this morning we are being told it’s about stovepipes.”

“It seems like a 2014 episode of Yes Minister, frankly."

He said independent research had showed there is no "independent evidence of the effectiveness or value of Whitehall horizon scanning". Other experts have warned "the problem is too many overlapping horizon scanning documents," he said.

“What have we really learnt from all this American jargon management speak? And that’s the polite way of putting it frankly. I can think of another, eight-letter word that might equally describe it. What have we really benefitted as a nation, compared to traditional strategic planning across government and responding adequately on the basis of the best information to crises as they develop?”

Mr Day, who was in charge of Britain's nuclear policy at the Ministry of Defence, replied: “I find it hard to disagree with anything you’ve said.”

Mr Mulholland said: “That really is Yes, Minister.”

Mr Day said: “No! Or the answer is, is yes."

He added: "One of the ideas behind the initiative was there was an extraordinary degree of theology behind around was horizon scanning, what was foresight.

"My report starts by saying there is so much theology, what matters is what it achieves rather than how you describe it.”

Theology, the study of religion, is sometimes used as a synonym for theory in Whitehall.

“Stove-piping” refers to the failure of organisations to share and analyse information properly before feeding it to the leadership, and has been used to describe the way the Bush White House was fed snippets of misleading intelligence ahead of the Iraq war. It is also a form of crude urban slang.

Back-casting is the act of imagining the result you want to achieve, and then working backwards to establish how to get there.

Dame Sally Davies, the Government's Chief Medical Officer, was quizzed over the Government’s planning for the bird flu pandemic. Some 150 British people died after £1 billion was spent on vaccines, the effectiveness of which was questionable, following official forecasts of 65,000 deaths. Dame Sally insisted her predecessors had done their jobs properly.

The panel were also challenged over the failure to act quickly enough to stop Ebola, and over the intelligence failings in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141209eac9003y2


CULTURE
Bob Geldof: 'Paul McCartney hasn't made the cut' for Band Aid 30
By Alice Vincent Entertainment Writer
307 words
8 December 2014
10:46 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The former Beatle wasn't hip enough for American audiences, says Geldof

Paul McCartney may have contributed to the first two Band Aid singles, but this time around the former Beatle "hasn't made the cut", Bob Geldof has said.

Geldof, who has formed and re-formed the charity supergroup with Midge Ure three times in the last 30 years, said that McCartney didn't meet their main criteria in 2014: namely, that he wasn't successful enough with the American market.

Speaking to the Daily Mirror [http://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/band-aid-30-bob-geldof-4756954], Geldof said: "Macca's always done stuff. He was in the band in 2004.

"But look, on this we've got from the newest to the hippest to the oldest... and he hasn't made the cut, what can I tell you?"

"The thing is, there’s only so many lines, so what do you do? At one point Midge Ure was like, ‘We can’t take more’, so you try and make it the girls and the boys, that’s the first thing.

"Then it’s who’s happening in America – that’s really important as sales are quantifiably more over there. Ellie Goulding, Ed Sheeran, One Direction, Coldplay, Sam Smith, U2... all these people are caning it in America."

Adele, the 26-year-old British singer who has broken American chart records, turned down the offer to sing in Band Aid 30.

The 2014 version of Do They Know It's Christmas has had its lyrics adapted to reflect the Ebola crisis in West Africa. Profits from single sales will go towards tackling the disease. It reached number one in its first week of release, but has since dropped down the Official UK Top 40 charts to number 11.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141208eac8002v3


In search of dignity for the last days
By Glenys Roberts
1973 words
8 December 2014
06:15 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
A shortage of suitable carers made coping with her ex-husband's dementia so much more difficult says Glenys Roberts

This year Doug Hayward, my ex-husband, would have been eighty. Our daughter Polly posted an endearingly frail picture of him on Facebook to celebrate. I also dug out a charming photo of the two of them in front of his famous Mayfair tailor’s shop, Hayward and Hayward, when she was just eighteen months old

As each anniversary comes along we are all compelled to revisit the past. In our case we repeatedly try to understand why this enterprising man, who escaped a poor background to become friends with all the movers and shakers of the classless Sixties, would be felled by Alzheimer’s while relatively young, dying with the same loss of dignity as so many other sufferers.

Doug was a brilliant tailor who married Continental flair with British workmanship. He made Michael Caine’s suits for The Italian Job and Roger Moore’s for The Spy Who Loved Me. His famous clients, including Clint Eastwood and John Le Carre, became close friends. But he was not immune to a disease which places insuperable demands on every family it strikes. Who is to look after the patient? Where are they to live? Can they hope to maintain a degree of independence?.

We were trying to answer these questions ten years ago, when Alzheimer’s care was in its infancy and specialist homes for those with dementia - such as those provided by the Abbeyfield Society[http://www.abbeyfield.com/], sponsored this year by the Telegraph’s Christmas Charity appeal [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/telegraphchristmasappeal/]- were thin on the ground.

With so little expertise about, Doug’s worst nightmare was to leave his own surroundings. So when in 2004, at the age of 69, his health deteriorated rapidly it resulted in unprecedented levels of stress, more even than that caused by our bitter divorce in 1978. The greatest challenge was trying to find kind, sensible professionals who would help support him in his own home for as long as possible.

A recent survey by the Care Quality Commission concluded that finding suitable carers is one of the most stressful issues facing any family with a frail or disabled relative. Indeed it is. How well I remember those dreadful days when we were faced with exactly this problem after Doug collapsed with malnutrition and dementia. After a lengthy stay in hospital it became clear he would need 24 hour care. We were luckier than most in that he had always squirrelled away money, so to begin with at least, there were sufficient funds available. Doug lived alone in a one-bedroomed flat above his shop in Mount Street. I lived opposite, but dementia patients need someone there on the spot and neither flat was suited to anyone else moving in. Besides which, after 30 years apart, we were reluctant to be that intimate. However, after he set fire to his bed clothes, mistaking them for the gas stove, a solution had to be found.

Things were made more difficult by Doug’s stubborn refusal to accept that he needed help. It had to be imposed upon him and this placed an additional burden of guilt on our thirty- something daughter Polly, then working between London and Paris, who was forced to make decisions that would humiliate her once vibrant Dad.

Particularly awful was having to confiscate his car keys when he returned from hospital. Doug was uncharacteristically violent as he tried to wrestle them back from her. He simply didn’t understand that his driving had become dangerously erratic – just before being admitted, it had taken him four hours to find his old friend Michael Caine’s house, an hour outside London and a route he had known well. He no longer recognised roads he had known for 50 years, although when I chauffeured him around he certainly pretended he did, tetchily berating my driving skills. It was just like old times - we might as well have been married still.

Doug had never been easy to live with and neither, I think, had I. Polly was seven when we had decided to separate. I don’t think his friends understood why we faced his illness united as a family, after all those years apart and the bitter recriminations our divorce lawyers had flung at the other; but anyone who has been in similar circumstances will. The strain on my daughter, his only relative, would have been intolerable if she had faced the crisis alone.

So how were we to recruit someone willing to live in cramped circumstances with an old man who needed intimate care yet must keep his dignity? We needed a carer, but we decided to designate him a “valet”. Doug had always yearned for one of these ever since we spent weekends back in the Seventies with the photographer Lord Lichfield and Princess Margaret, when milord’s butler was on hand to iron evn the pound notes if needed.

With this happy memory in mind, we advertised in The Lady for a Gentleman’s gentleman with nursing skills. We had only one answer but it was highly promising. A very dapper British 40-ish, with apparently good references as a valet, presented himself and did not seem at all phased when we described the challenge. By this time Doug was recovering from hospital in a rest home in the country. I took the new recruit down for lunch and the usually

irascible patient took to him immediately. He was easy to be with and a good audience for my ex’s mindless chatter. He didn’t mind the prospect of sleeping in the sitting room in the London flat and even accepted that we were unable to match his current salary. Doug was happy, and in the knowledge that he would be safe, my daughter and I were relieved to be free to concentrate on work again.

Then came the call, just days later. Our valet was in a telephone box in some unidentified location. He said he didn’t dare use his mobile phone because it was being tapped. He then confessed that his boss was a well-known Russian oligarch. Having told his employer he was moving on, the man had made such serious threats that he feared for his life, and Doug’s too. That was the last we ever heard of the valet.

An extreme learning curve perhaps but it certainly highlighted our problems. We found it difficult to check out references properly because of the Data Protection Act. We had to fall back on nursing agencies, which immediately doubled the price of care. As we soon discovered, agency staff rarely had the level of commitment Doug needed. They worked strict shifts and moved on quickly. Most were not from the UK and had poor English. My ex, who by now found it difficult to communicate at the best of times, simply could not understand them.

There was one exception. One day a Nigerian nurse, with heavily accented English presented himself, and received the usual barely polite reception from Doug. The man proved a treasure. Carer and patient were often spotted walking down the street in deep conversation, both with carefree, happy expressions. On one visit to the flat, I discovered the reason why. Doug and his new friend were sitting together on the sofa, watching football. They both supported the same team - Chelsea - and their life together was planned around its fixtures.

The man had other qualities too. I was present when Doug in one of his less attractive moods, born of frustration, lapsed into violence and pitiful despair at his loss of independence. The obvious solution was for him to die he raged, inviting us to help him and threatening to jump out of the window if we didn’t. This gem of a carer calmly explained that in the village he came from, there was a saying that one must enjoy every last drop of life because it was a gift from God and that every age had its compensations.

Doug, at this stage scarcely lucid enough to tell us what he wanted for dinner, somehow not only understood this philosophy but wholeheartedly embraced it. From then on he radiated cheerfulness - only to experience another terrible downer when after a couple of months our angel moved on.

In the end we learned to rely whenever possible on Australian and New Zealand carers who spoke an English Doug could understand. But what a varied lot the agency came up with. There was a former prison officer who mercilessly hiked him round Hyde Park and a cross dresser who excelled at charades. There were also carers who abused him. He emerged black and blue from one experience, despite the carer being sent by a leading nursing agency. Since he could not tell us exactly what happened, we could prove nothing. Whatever our complaints, the agency always emerged unscathed, largely because we were so dependent on them.

Things with the agency came to a head when the supply of ready funds ran out and we had to mortgage Doug’s cottage near Henley. This was done with the blessing of the Court of Protection but naturally it took time before the money could be released. Yet despite being given a date they would be paid, the agency threatened to withdraw its services, leaving us with an increasingly sick patient who was aware enough to realise the next stop was a care home.

At that point it really did seem as if God intervened. One of the more reliable carers we had used had a young, untrained friend, Stuart, who was willing to learn on the job and share the shifts. Stuart became exceedingly fond of his rather grouchy charge. With his help, Doug even managed to come to Polly’s wedding at our local church in 2007.

By now though, he was succumbing to successive bouts of pneumonia and in 2008 moved into a care home in Battersea. As with so many such institutions, this was effectively a dying room. At first sight staff had seemed friendly but we soon discovered differently: the patient’s water was put out of reach, he was not fed and he grew so weak he fell over. After he pulled the alarm cord, it was looped up, beyond his reach. After one heavy fall he ended up in Accident and Emergency, where a nurse was so appalled by his bruising that she ordered our own trusted carers including Stuart, to oversee his treatment at all times, at the expense of the NHS.

Doug died in the home about a month later, aged 73. We thought about pressing for an inquiry into negligence but it wouldn’t have brought him back and none of us wanted the distress it would have entailed.

As everyone in the same boat will testify, these end- of- life sagas are both strangely rewarding and immensely stressful. The existence of homes such as those funded by The Abbeyfield Society, that are pioneering new ways of managing sufferers and improving the quality what remains of their lives, would certainly have made it easier on our family.

The Telegraph’s Christmas Appeal[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/telegraphchristmasappeal/] is supporting The Abbeyfield Society,[http://www.abbeyfield.com/]Medical Detection Dogs[http://medicaldetectiondogs.org.uk/] and The Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/telegraphchristmasappeal/10450568/Help-us-to-transform-the-lives-of-others-with-our-three-deserving-causes.html] . Our charity phone-in day this year will be Sunday December 7, when you can call a member of the Telegraph staff and make a credit or debit card donation – last year we raised some £120,000 on the phone-in day alone, once Gift Aid was reclaimed. For more about these charities, and details of how to donate to The Telegraph Christmas Charity Appeal[https://telegraph.charitiestrust.org/telegraphappeal.aspx], go to telegraph.co.uk/charity[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/telegraphchristmasappeal/]

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141208eac8001rx


News
Phone–in tops £64,000
174 words
8 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
3; National
2
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Charity Appeal

Readers donated £64,562 to the Telegraph Christmas Charity Appeal through our annual phone–in day yesterday.

Writers, editors and contributors, including Matt, Henry Winter, Bunny Guinness, Gillian Reynolds, Judith Woods, Robbie Collin, Neil McCormick and Gaby Wood, staffed phones throughout the day to take donations for this year's three charities, the Abbeyfield Society, Medical Detection Dogs and the Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative.

Once Gift Aid is reclaimed, the total for the day will pass £80,000.

The Abbeyfield Society runs more than 500 not–for–profit care homes for the elderly and takes a particular interest in dementia patients; the Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative trains health care workers in west Africa to prevent the deadly virus, and Medical Detection Dogs trains its animals to detect cancer and to act as assistance dogs for diabetes patients.

The appeal runs until Jan 31, and you can make a donation by telephoning 0151 284 1927 or by going to telegraph.co.uk/charity

Editorial Comment Page 23

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141208eac800070


Editorial; Opinion, Leading articles
A gift for giving
144 words
8 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
23
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
THE DAILY TELEGRAPH Established 1855

There may be a chill in the air, but our readers' hearts remain as warm as ever. Yesterday, for our 25th annual Telegraph Christmas Charity Appeal, they – you – again called in throughout the day, to donate to the three causes selected: Medical Detection Dogs, The Abbeyfield Society and The Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative.

For our staff, as well as for the charities we support, it is genuinely stirring to learn anew of our readers' generosity, and how willing they are to give what they can – making, in many cases, a considerable personal sacrifice. They can rest assured that the money donated will be going to three truly worthy causes, and that they have done their part to brighten the Christmas, and the future, of those who will benefit from their help.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141208eac800043


NEWS
Christmas Charity Appeal 2014: your chance to talk to Telegraph writers
By Jon Laurence
206 words
7 December 2014
09:40 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
All through Sunday the Telegraph is hosting its annual charity phone-in – giving you the chance to talk to everyone from football correspondent Henry Winter to parliamentary sketchwriter Michael Deacon

This year the Telegraph makes its 25th annual appeal[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/telegraphchristmasappeal/] on behalf of three charities[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/telegraphchristmasappeal/10450568/Help-us-to-transform-the-lives-of-others-with-our-three-deserving-causes.html] . They are the Abbeyfield Society[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/telegraphchristmasappeal/11228870/The-Telegraph-Christmas-Charity-Appeal-2014-Abbeyfield-Society.html], which offers people with dementia sheltered accommodation and care homes, Medical Detection Dogs,[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/telegraphchristmasappeal/11228879/The-Telegraph-Christmas-Charity-Appeal-2014-Medical-Detection-Dogs.html] which trains the animals to detect the smell of human disease, and the Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/telegraphchristmasappeal/11228878/The-Telegraph-Christmas-Charity-Appeal-2014-Masanga-Mentor-Initiative.html], which educates communities across Africa about infection control.

All through today a host of Telegraph personalities will be taking your calls – between 10am and 6pm. Call now and you could speak to anyone from Football Correspondent Henry Winter to Film Critic Robbie Collin. You might even get the chance to talk to the Telegraph's legendary cartoonist, Matt.

We enjoy the chance to talk to you, our readers, and we are always overwhelmed by the generosity you show, year after year.

Call 0800 117 118 and some of the Telegraph's best-known names will be waiting to take your credit and debit card donations on behalf of three very worthy causes.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141207eac7002bd


Please give generously to our Christmas appeal
By Telegraph View
453 words
7 December 2014
01:30 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Telegraph View: times might be tight, but these worthy causes deserve your support.

After lunch, the elderly residents of Abbeyfield House, in Alnwick, Northumberland, are joined by donkeys in the lounge. For them, this is not out of the ordinary. The Abbeyfield Society, which runs more than 500 care homes, believes that offbeat and unusual activities can help to alleviate loneliness and draw individuals out of themselves. As Fancy Pants and Fabergé amble around the room, the residents stroke them and memories come flooding back – memories of pets, nativity plays and joyful times gone by.

The Abbeyfield Society is one of the good causes that we ask readers to support in this year’s Telegraph Christmas Charity Appeal. Another is the Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative, which uses specially adapted techniques to train health-care and community workers across West Africa who are trying to fight the dreaded Ebola virus. This newspaper is also backing Medical Detection Dogs (MDD), a remarkable organisation based in Great Horwood, Buckinghamshire, which works to train specialist dogs to detect the odour of human disease.

We appreciate that we live in an age of austerity and that for many readers, times are tight. But one of the things that makes Britain such a great country is the generosity of its citizens – their willingness to put the needs of others before themselves. Last year, our one-day phone-in raised more than £100,000. In total, the appeal generated over £700,000 for good causes. As is always the case, we would very much like to surpass last year’s total.

Your money will go towards causes that are all about helping others. Consider the remarkable work of MDD. A dog’s sense of smell is so much more powerful than a human’s that they can detect odours at a concentration of one part per trillion. For years this has been used to find narcotics and contraband but, thanks to the charity, it is now being used to help people living with conditions such as diabetes or Addison’s. For instance, the dogs can detect when a human’s blood glucose levels are rising or falling and will warn their master that something isn’t right. Sometimes these clever canines will even bring them their medical kits.

Life can seem overwhelmed by big things beyond everyone’s control. But hope is often found in smaller things: a loyal dog that’s a special friend, a care home that really feels like home, a doctor or nurse doing their very best – or someone picking up the phone and donating money to help a perfect stranger. Thank you for your generosity.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141207eac7000ji


Features
They sing to ward off Ebola
Joe Shute
1619 words
6 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
29
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The virus has devastated West Africa, but there are signs it is being contained. Joe Shute reports from Liberia on the work of one of the Telegraph's Christmas charities

In Monrovia's Logan Town slum, 14–year–old Teneh Ntvor sits on a plastic stool, listening to the hymns drifting over from the Free Pentecostal Church opposite. Inside the peeling concrete shell, a group of women in white linen smocks shake sasas (Liberian drums) and chant, in Kissi, one of the many local dialects: "I am in your care Lord, please take care of me."

They sing to protect themselves from Ebola, the most terrifying threat this impoverished community has ever faced. But for Teneh, it is already too late. The virus has torn through her home, killing 11 members of her family. A week ago, she walked out of one of Monrovia's newly constructed emergency treatment units clutching a certificate saying she had survived the virus, but there was no one left to go home to.

Her eyes, partially covered by her faded cotton headscarf, glisten as she reels off the names of the dead. "I have lost everybody," she says.

Teneh caught Ebola by caring for her grandmother. "She was sick, and even though she was getting worse, she wouldn't go to the hospital. I looked after her, but then she died in the house. I was taken to the emergency treatment clinic and was there for two weeks before I recovered."

Since her return to Logan Town, she has been evicted by the family's landlord and many in her community have shunned her, terrified, even though she is now immune, that she will bring Ebola into their homes.

"Now I am staying with a woman who is taking care of me. Everybody else has abandoned me. I had friends before but they don't see me. I am worried for the future, but I want to go back to school. I want to become a nurse and help people."

Liberia, and in particular the slums of its capital, Monrovia, has been the epicentre of the world's worst–ever Ebola epidemic, which started in Guinea a year ago this month. On Wednesday, the World Health Organisation warned that the global death toll has now risen above 6,000 out of 17,145 cases – while the number of unreported victims is feared to be many thousands more.

Liberia accounts for more than half of the current number of deaths, though its status as the worstaffected country in West Africa may soon change, with at least 1,400 new confirmed cases recorded in neighbouring Sierra Leone in the past three weeks.

In Monrovia, a crowded, chaotic city squeezed between sea and swamp, Ebola has run rampant through its one–and–a–half million inhabitants. The last official population count for West Point and Bushrod Island – the city's two largest slums – was 240,000, but it is thought as many as 400,000 could be living among the patchwork of corrugated iron roofs and twisting alleyways. Neighbourhoods such as Logan Town (on Bushrod Island) have become breeding grounds for a virus spread so easily by human contact, via exposure to bodily fluids.

But through the work taking place on the ground here, the city is starting to regain control. Even though all its schools and hospitals remain closed and its inhabitants discouraged from touching one another in public, the national state of emergency has been declared over.

Hotspots of infection are still flaring up – only yesterday it was confirmed that a UN peacekeeper had contracted Ebola, and 16 people who came into contact with the soldier have been quarantined – but the number of cases in the capital has reduced to about a hundred a week.

Life, slowly, is returning to something approaching normal, albeit still punctuated by the howling sirens of ambulances and red pick–up trucks driven by men in full personal protection suits, off to fetch another body.

The cases may be in decline, but an even greater challenge awaits. As currently experienced in Sierra Leone, the nature of Ebola is that it spikes, fast – particularly in areas like Logan Town where people live 20 or more to a house. Teneh's story shows how quickly the virus can destroy an entire family.

The current fear among aid and health workers for Liberia is that, as it begins to contain the outbreak, complacency will creep in and the virus will return. To convince people that the crisis is far from over, the message "Ebola Is Real" – daubed on signs lining Monrovia's traffic–clogged thoroughfares – is this week being changed to "Ebola Must Go".

It is here where the Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative – supported by the Telegraph as part of its Christmas Charity Appeal – has become such a crucial weapon. The initiative, formed between the UK–supported Masanga Hospital in Sierra Leone and the Liberia–based Mentor Initiative, has so far trained 160 community health volunteers who are out working in Monrovia's slums every day. By January, this network will have increased to 400 and extended to the nearby city of Paynesville, where this week 20 suspected new Ebola cases from one small community were recorded. At the same time, the charity is also expanding its network across Sierra Leone.

The volunteers live in the areas they serve, and have been educated by the charity to monitor infection control, as well as provide support for survivors and the bereaved in communities crippled by the disease. They come, not in quarantine suits – the overuse of which has been blamed for spreading an "epidemic of fear" – but in white T–shirts and clutching notebooks.

As the depth of their training and numbers increase, so their role grows. Oxford–educated Dr Samafilan Ainan, co–ordinator for the volunteers on the ground in Monrovia, says their work is not just about prevention and support, but finding cases too: "That is why we go house to house."

One of the local Logan Town volunteers, 40–yearold James Davids, patrols its chaotic dirt roads with a gold crucifix hanging around his neck. He remembers well Liberia's ruinous civil wars, which raged between 1989 and 2003, killing 250,000 people, and says Ebola has been even more destructive.

"This community has been very badly affected by Ebola; it is almost like another civil war. It is a disease that is scarier than bullets and it kills entire families. I have seen lots of cases where people were lying dead in the street, their bodies just rotting on the ground. In September, one of my friend's families got sick: they all died, only one child survived.

"We pray to get rid of it in this country. But even when it leaves here, we need to help our neighbours in Sierra Leone and Guinea and across West Africa."

Education is key to their work. Many living here still believe Ebola is a man–made virus, imported into Liberia to make money. The chlorine spray used by health workers to douse infected homes has been blamed in some quarters for causing the deaths. People continue to hide sick relatives at home and then embalm and bury their bodies in secret, infecting themselves in the process. Even the singers in Logan Town's Pentecostal Church believe Ebola is due to unearthly "visions".

Such rumours, says Kevin McCauley, chairman of the area of Logan Town we visit, are the product of fear. Earlier in the summer, three people died from the virus in his home of 16 family members, and he was placed in quarantine. When a household has been tainted by Ebola, he says, "everybody is afraid of you". But the health volunteers are helping to rebuild such divisions. "They are going out there and talking to people every day and making a huge difference."

As we walk, crowds of children skittering around us, we encounter the odd heckle – but the community, by and large, is receptive. Three women in bright skirts peel leaves of corn and ask the volunteers to inquire about the status of their malaria medication. Another group mashing cassava leaves with wooden poles listen patiently as they are told about the importance of keeping a bucket of chlorinated water nearby to wash their hands. In the centre of the capital, one stands outside almost every building; not so in the slums.

One of the tasks for the volunteers is to try to discover the whereabouts of an Ebola survivor who recently returned to the community and infected his wife by having unprotected sex. The man had been told that while survivors are immune, they can still transmit the disease for three months afterwards through sexual intercourse. His wife has since died, and he has fled.

The volunteers, whose ages range from teenagers to those in their sixties, have become experts in the virus. The health–worker population has been decimated here, and many hope that, when the outbreak is over, they will take their places in clinics and hospitals. For now, they stay on the streets, under no illusion as to the scale of the task at hand.

"We are talking to people and telling them we are still in a battle for survival," says 29–year–old Olando Farley. "Ebola is still here. We cannot relax at all. Otherwise, it will come back for us."

For more information or to donate to the Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative – or the Telegraph's two other Christmas charities, The Abbeyfield Society and Medical Detection Dogs – see the page opposite or visit telegraph.co.uk/charity

TELEGRAPH CHRISTMAS CHARITY APPEAL

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141206eac60003z


NEWS
Safety breaches at UK labs handling lethal viruses
By Keith Perry
1083 words
4 December 2014
06:15 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Some of the organisms in the laboratories where safety breaches occurred have no vaccines or treatments

High-security laboratories that handle lethal viruses and bacteria have reported more than 100 accidents or near-misses to safety regulators in the past five years, official reports have disclosed.

One error led to live anthrax being sent from a government facility to unsuspecting labs across the UK, a mistake that exposed other scientists to the disease. Another caused the failure of an air handling system that helped contain foot and mouth disease at a large animal lab.

Wear and tear also caused problems and potentially put researchers in danger. At a top security Ministry of Defence lab, tears were found in isolation suits at a facility handling animals infected with the Ebola virus.

Reports obtained by the Guardian[http://www.theguardian.com/science/2014/dec/04/-sp-100-safety-breaches-uk-labs-potentially-deadly-diseases] from the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) reveal that more than 70 incidents at government, university and hospital labs were serious enough to investigate. Many led to enforcement letters, or crown prohibition notices (CPN), ordering labs to shut until improvements were made. Some were so serious they ended in legal action.

Prof Richard Ebright, a US biosafety expert at Rutgers University in New Jersey, who reviewed the reports for the Guardian, said that, taken together, they revealed failures in procedures, infrastructure, training and safety culture at some British labs.

Commenting on a series of incidents at facilities that work on animal diseases, Ebright asked: “Does British agriculture have a death wish?”

The figures amount to one probe every three weeks at secure laboratories that are designed to carry out research on pathogens that can cause serious illness and spread into the community. Some of the organisms are lethal and have no vaccines or treatments.

Many of the incidents were one-off, almost inevitable human mistakes, such as spillages of infectious bugs. Others were down to old equipment and safety clothing. The most serious accidents arose from chains of mistakes that happened one after the other, and were often only discovered later.

The reports compiled by the HSE describe at least 116 incidents and 75 completed investigations since April 2010 at laboratories where the most dangerous organisms are handled. Other investigations are under way, but the HSE cannot disclose details of those in case they lead to legal action. All of the investigations were prompted by reports from lab managers who are obliged by law to tell the HSE when an accident or near-miss happens at their facility.

Some of the most disturbing incidents occurred at the Surrey-based Animal Health and Veterinary Laboratories Agency (AHVLA), renamed the Animal and Plant Health Agency (APHA) in October. In one case, scientists were handling anthrax when something went badly wrong. They meant to send harmless samples, killed by heat, to nearby AHVLA labs and others in York and Belfast. But somehow the tubes got mixed up. Instead of sending out dead material, the anthrax they sent was live and dangerous.

The staff who made the mistake were safe enough. They worked in a high-security lab built to contain lethal agents. But some of those who received the bugs did not. In Belfast, the anthrax was handled in a higher containment lab, meaning those staff were safe. In York, the samples were never opened. But at another AHVLA site, scientists opened the tubes in a less secure lab and got to work on the open bench. The incident at the AHVLA is one of the more serious biological accidents that has happened in the UK in recent years. But it was far from being the only one.

The anthrax incident at the AHVLA happened in May 2012 and drew an immediate crown prohibition notice, which closed the lab so no more live anthrax could be sent out. Ironically, the government had spent months stockpiling anthrax vaccines in case terrorists released the bug at the London Olympics.

The HSE investigation found that two staff at the AHVLA were unwittingly exposed to the deadly virus, though both had been vaccinated and neither fell ill. The incident received little attention. In the agency’s 2012-13 annual report, one line refers to the clampdown. It states: “CPN – labelling and tracking of biological materials inadequate – now resolved”.

The AHVLA has made dangerous slips before. Last year, the lab received a crown censure for nine safety lapses that exposed staff to live Mycobacterium bovis, an organism that causes TB in cattle but can cause serious illness and even death in humans.

Over a two-year period, from 2009 to 2011, 3,700 samples were sent from one AHVLA lab to another without managers knowing the organisms were still viable. Minutes of the crown censure hearing reveal an alarming picture. Staff had been given the wrong equipment to destroy the bacteria and were not trained in the right procedure. Management had failed to act when staff raised concerns. One person later tested positive for the infection.

Britain has about 600 CL3 labs. Nine sites, all in south-east England, are home to CL4 labs, including the National Institute for Medical Research, which studies pandemic and avian flu, and the Ministry of Defence’s Porton Down lab, which studies Ebola and other pathogens that could be used as biological weapons.

The Institute for Animal Health (IAH), renamed the Pirbright Institute in 2012, was handed eight enforcement letters since April 2010, more than any other single facility.

A BIS spokesperson said: “We take any breach of security and safety procedures in animal disease testing facilities very seriously. In these instances, there was no risk to the public and no viruses were released. Health and safety procedures at Pirbright have been strengthened and the BBSRC [Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council] have invested millions of pounds into facilities including the National Virology Centre, which boasts a brand new state-of-the-art high laboratory facility. An independent review was commissioned to promote the development of robust, effective systems and work practices at Pirbright and ensure public safety”.

A spokesperson for the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, which funded the AHVLA and now the APHA, said on Thursday afternoon:“UK animal disease laboratories are nationally and internationally recognised for their expertise, playing a crucial role in the swift diagnosis of notifiable disease, as shown in the recent avian flu outbreak. As with any laboratory, improvements in procedures are continually made and we always follow HSE advice.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141204eac4005mu


Why donkeys in the lounge make for a happier home
By Christopher Middleton
971 words
4 December 2014
08:00 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The Abbeyfield Society is bringing animals into their homes to interact with residents and to encourage conversation, trigger memories and just for fun

At first, you can’t quite believe it. No sooner have the residents of Abbeyfield House, in Alnwick, Northumberland, taken their seats in the lounge after lunch, than two small donkeys come trotting in across the carpet.

Enter, at a gentle pace, Fancy Pants and Fabergé. Both are immaculately groomed and accompanied by their equally well-dressed owners, John and Lorraine Rae.

Surprisingly, the arrival of these two delicately hooved newcomers does not cause a stir. That’s because unusual and offbeat activities are part of the daily routine, both here and at the 516 other Abbeyfield homes across the country.

Yes, this is a place for people who have reached the age where they can’t quite manage to live on their own. But at the same time, the guiding philosophy is that if you provide a stream of new experiences, you will not only keep everyone interested, but also give them something to talk about.

And experiences don’t come much newer than having two holly-bedecked donkeys walking across carpet that’s more used to the tread of tea-trolley wheels. There is, however, method behind the madness.

“It has been proven that animal companionship and interaction can help alleviate loneliness and trigger successful interaction among residents,” says the Abbeyfield website[http://www.abbeyfield.com/]. “Animals have a way of helping people to forget pain for a while, join in conversations about memories of pets, as well as encouraging people to enjoy laughter and fun together.”

And today’s events underline the truth of those words, as the presence of the animals unlocks memories from the pensioners’ past. “We had rabbits and hens, and my dad used to have a hutch for his ferrets,” recalls

98-year-old Evelyn Houston. “We had a farm, and I was always riding horses,” says 93-year-old Mary Vickers.

All around the room, then, as the Abbeyfield residents gently stroke the donkeys’ backs, long-forgotten memories emerge.

“A lot of people here had animals before they came,” says Freda Snaith, one of the carers. “They miss them when they don’t have them any more.”

No question about it, says retired vet John Spence, whose 100-year-old mother, Barbara, lives at Abbeyfield. “My mother always had Westies and Scotties when she was young,” he says. “There is no doubt that when she had to stop having animals, she found it very hard.”

For this afternoon, however, the home has been transformed into a menagerie. No sooner have the donkeys started to make friends than they are joined by a supporting cast of smaller animals.

Most of these are supplied by mother-and-son team Stef and Scott Wraith. Together, they run a show-and-stroke enterprise called Animal Antics, in which they take on abandoned animals, giving them a new home and a new lease of life.

Hence the presence of two very relaxed rabbits, Honey and Lola.

“She’s a Cross Netherland Dwarf Rabbit,” says Stef of Lola. “When she came to live with us, she was depressed, because her sister had died, but now she really enjoys these outings.”

At which point, as if to test out this theory, it’s time to send in the reptiles. First, a bearded dragon (think large, leathery, bumpy grey lizard), followed by a wriggling, orange-and-white-coloured corn snake.

Both of these have made the short journey from the home of Abbeyfield carer Catherine Lofts. “We’ve got lots more at home,” says her husband, Steve, trying to stop a snake from disappearing up his sleeve. “There’s a chameleon, a gecko, a skink, plus two cats and some tropical fish.”

Next star turn is Bracken, the barred owl. He, in turn, is accompanied by another bearded dragon. “This one’s not as big as he should be,” Scott tells the residents. “He’s fully grown, but he suffers from something called metabolic bone disease.” Next minute, Scott is kneeling down, letting the residents handle the mice he’s brought with him. “I’m not sure why it is,” he says, “but the boy mice smell much worse than the girls.”

In terms of engaging the pensioners’ attention, it’s an ever-changing, hour-long array of animals and hands-on activity. Even those residents who don’t want to touch the animals still have questions to ask. However, it’s not just the number of creatures on show that is remarkable about this afternoon, it’s the number of people involved. As well as the dozen or so residents, there are three times as many care staff, catering staff, relatives and other volunteers in attendance – underlining the notion that elderly people need not sepulchral peace and quiet, but stimulation.

The donkeys are doing their best to meet that requirement. Despite being in a small room surrounded by people they don’t know, they show no signs of impatience or reluctance. They seem content to clip-clop around, being patted by people on all sides, while wearing sprigs of holly. The Christmas spirit is well and truly here.

The Telegraph’s Christmas Appeal [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/telegraphchristmasappeal/] is supporting The Abbeyfield Society, Medical Detection Dogs and The Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative. Our charity phone-in day this year will be Sunday December 7, when you can call a member of the Telegraph staff and make a credit or debit card donation – last year we raised some £120,000 on the phone-in day alone, once Gift Aid was reclaimed. For more about these charities, and details of how to donate to The Telegraph Christmas Charity Appeal, go to telegraph.co.uk/charity

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141204eac4002mh


TRAVEL
North Korea launches tourism website
By Natalie Paris
550 words
3 December 2014
03:33 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
North Korea has launched a new website designed to appeal to international visitors, even though its borders remain closed and the majority of the content is in Korean

DprkToday.com[http://DPRKToday.com] has details about the notoriously secretive state’s sights and hotels, a slightly bizarre array of images, a range of tour itineraries and advice on subjects such as visa applications.

Unfortunately, while a few headlines are in English, those wanting to read the website will have to consult Google Translate in order to understand it.

The website has been created to “satisfy growing interest and expectation” in North Korea from the West, according to a video news clip welcoming visitors to the homepage.

Its arrival comes at a time when the country’s borders remain closed however, in response to the Ebola outbreak in Africa.

The video footage shows the country’s football team and athletes, skiers at the Masikryong resort, dolphins leaping out of a pool in front of delighted Western crowds, participants in the Arirang mass games and, most bizarrely, a missile launching.

English subtitles state: “The Pyongyang Moranbong Editorial Bureau has newly opened the homepage (Korea Today) to show the creative efforts of the Korean people for better future, their worthwhile and optimistic life and great changes in Korea.

“We sincerely hope for your deepest concern and warm support.”

Professionally-shot, fairly recent-looking photos are used on the site, including one showing the riverside Juche Idea tower lit up at night; a snowy scene of a park containing billboards of political leaders’ faces; costumed children mid-song and light displays along the Taedong River.

There is also a list of flights between Beijing to Pyongyang under the tourism section, while the homepage shows a selection of news stories from the country, including one covering a factory that produces socks to “rave reviews”, a snippet about young children learning to play musical instruments and another that compiles glowing remarks from foreign visitors about the Rakwon swimming pool complex.

"This is a broad outline rather than a comprehensive account of all that can be seen and done in the country," said Simon Cockerell of Koryo Tours ( koryogroup.com[http://koryogroup.com] ), a specialist in North Korea.

"Most of the pictures have been used a lot in advertising in the Chinese tourism market (mostly in NE China) by North Korean travel companies before, so it isn’t as new as it may seem, but it is notable that the website is in Korean, making people ask who this is aimed at; Chinese-Koreans? Japanese-Koreans?

"As people in South Korea are not able to go there and they make up the majority of Korean speaking peoples, this does limit the reach and practicality of the site somewhat."

Last year, North Korea announced plans to attract more tourists, promising the introduction of new flights to Pyongyang from China, Southeast Asia and Europe.

There has been a marked rise in interest from tourists wanting to see inside the “hermit kingdom” in the last couple of years. But the tightly controlled visits, while arguably beneficial to locals, are unlikely to present a realistic picture of a country that the Security Council of the United Nations is currently considering referring to The Hague for abuses against humanity.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141202eac20043d


News
West reacted too late to fight Ebola, claims aid agency
Colin Freeman
271 words
3 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
23
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
THE Ebola outbreak in west Africa could be under control by now had Britain and otherWestern governments sent teams of biological disaster experts in to help, the aid agency Médecins Sans Frontières said yesterday.

It criticised governments for ignoring its call to send in teams with "biologicaldisaster response capacity" in early September, when the outbreak first showed signs of spiralling out of control.

Most Western nations, including Britain, retain such teams in the event of an outbreak hitting their own shores. But the international response, including Britain's, has focused instead on building clinics, leaving shortfalls in the number of qualified medical staff to man them.

The 80–bed British–built clinic at Kerry Town in Sierra Leone, which opened last month, has been running at only a fraction of its capacity. With staff effectively "learning on the job", the clinic's managers have been forced to restrict numbers for safety reasons.

"Foreign governments have focused primarily on financing or building Ebola case management structures, leaving staffing them up to national authorities, local health care staff and NGOs which do not have the expertise required to do so," MSF said in a statement.

The claim came as new data from the World Health Organisation showed that more than 6,000 people had now died from the virus.

North Korea has accused the US of manufacturing the Ebola virus to secure its domination of the world. An editorial in the Pyongyang Times claimed that Washington may have developed the virus and intentionally allowed it to spread throughout West Africa.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141203eac300047


CULTURE
Batman vs Superman: new pictures of Henry Cavill and Amy Adams
By Rebecca Hawkes
258 words
2 December 2014
05:59 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
On set pictures from Batman vs Superman: Dawn of Justice reveal Clark Kent and Lois Lane embracing

New pictures from the sets of Zack Snyder's forthcoming Batman vs Superman: Dawn of Justice [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/film/film-news/11021279/Batman-vs-Superman-news-rumours-and-spoilers.html] have emerged online.

The images, which were posted on the instagram account [http://instagram.com/p/wEVjgEqa-_/?modal=true] of the blog Henry Cavill News [http://www.henrycavillnews.com/], were reportedly taken in El Paso, Texas. They include a picture of Henry Cavill's Superman embracing Amy Adams' Lois Lane, and an image of Cavill as Superman's bespectacled alter ego, Clark Kent, in conversation with an unknown woman. The third image depicts Cavill with a fan, and was taken at Texas International Airport, rather than on the set of the movie.

Filming for Batman vs Superman has taken place at a number of locations, including Detroit and Chicago. Back in October, the construction of a large, fortress-like set was observed in the New Mexico desert, near the city of Deming, and reported on by a local Albuquerque station named KOAT 7. El Paso is located in West Texas, close to the New Mexico border.

Many fans believe that the New Mexico set will represent Themyscira, land of Wonder Woman (Gal Gadot) and the Amazons. Snyder originally planned to shoot the scenes in Morocco, but was reportedly forced to relocate due to the Ebola crisis. A standalone Wonder Woman film [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/film/film-news/11166315/Wonder-Woman-to-be-first-female-led-superhero-film-since-2005.html], starring Gadot, is due for release in 2017.

Batman vs Superman: Dawn of Justice will be released in March 2016.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141202eac2002ml


NEWS
North Korea accuses US of developing Ebola virus
By Hamish Macdonald, NK News
508 words
2 December 2014
06:42 PM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Editorial in the Pyongyang Times fuels conspiracy theory that Washington is using deadly disease to maintain power over developing world

An editorial in the Pyongyang Times on Monday claims that the US may have developed the Ebola[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/ebola/] virus and intentionally allowed it to spread throughout West Africa and the rest of the world.

The article, "Ebola virus much feared as biological weapon", claims that the US has done so for the purposes of generating profits from an Ebola vaccine as well as to weaken other countries for its own political gain.

"Fears are rising after suspicions were aroused that the virus was made and spread by the US," the article read, paraphrasing comments and beliefs from a plant pathologist in Liberia and two Americans, Paul Roberts and Francis Boyle, as possible evidence.

Prof Boyle, an expert in international law at the University of Illinois, has claimed repeatedly that the virus was genetically modified and that a US government laboratory located in West Africa was likely to have been the source of the outbreaks.

Dr Roberts served as assistant secretary of the treasury for economic policy under President Ronald Reagan in the 1980s and has written several blog posts on his website questioning the US government's reaction to the spread of the virus.

In recent years he has made a number of controversial claims, including questioning the official story of the September 11 terrorist attacks.

The author of the Pyongyang Times piece goes on to make more claims about US involvement in the spread of the virus and the intentions behind such an action.

"In the long run, it seems that the US aims to leave the virus spread to all parts of the world while advertising freedom and turn out a vaccine to make a big fortune," it said.

"More importantly, the US attempts to grip such a biological weapon as the Ebola virus and make worse the economies of some countries so that it could hold upper hand in political, economic and military fields."

North Korea has imposed some of the strictest Ebola measures and implemented a mandatory 21-day quarantine period for all international travelers to the country, although some exceptions have been made.

The editorial is one in a series of articles that has heavily criticised the Washington in recent weeks as North Korea attempts to counter international pressure regarding its dire human rights record[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/northkorea/11238975/Eight-reasons-why-North-Korea-should-be-charged-with-crimes-against-humanity.html] .

In an effort to do so the Korean Central News Agency quoted a North Korean foreign ministry spokesman in November as saying that the US is a "a tundra of human rights" and has previously cited recent events in the city of Ferguson, Missouri as evidence of widespread racial discrimination within the country.

North Korea claims that the criticism it has received is part of a plot to undermine the country's leadership and political system led by the US and what it calls hostile forces.

This article is published in collaboration with NKNews.org

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141203eac20000s


NEWS
Ebola Diary: The survivors who go back to the 'front'
By Dr Felicity Fitzgerald
658 words
2 December 2014
07:11 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Being in a white coat is one thing. Being a faceless white monster for the child Ebola victims is harder, says Dr Felicity Fitzgerald.

We are lucky enough to be working with a couple of Ebola survivors. It is pretty humbling to have colleagues so committed and hard working, and they can offer words of comfort and reassurance impossible for who haven’t been through the disease. It is also hard not to feel pathetically grateful when they put themselves forward for the most unpleasant and dangerous tasks - dealing with dead bodies, mopping up blood and vomit. They are shielding us from the heaviest exposures, knowing that they are likely to be protected by antibodies.

This is exactly what happened to me yesterday when, in an all time low, I nearly slipped and spread-eagled over a corpse we were lifting out of a car. Wellies and floors covered in chlorine are another occupational hazard. I was saved by my survivor colleague leaping forward. Feelings once more of pathetic gratitude ensued… Until we got outside, changed back into our normal clothes and he turned to me and said: “Wow Flic, is that an under-boob sweat patch?” Yes. Yes it is. Suddenly a lot less grateful.

Sweat, along with chlorine, is a way of life now. You’re not allowed to touch your face for half an hour after you leave the unit to minimize any chance of spreading virus that has somehow not been purged in the doffing dance. This leads to mortifying moments of kind colleagues dabbing drops off my nose. And a trip to the supermarket where I knew full well I had a bit of fluff on my cheek and just had to brazen it out with bemused staff members. More frustrating is in the unit itself where sweat can get in your eyes.

This further impedes the one method of normal body language you have left with patients - eye contact. As a paediatrician I find this particularly challenging, as my normal methods of putting children at ease are out of bounds. No pulling faces, no peek-a-boo (can’t be waving potentially contaminated gloves anywhere near your visor) and, sadly, very little body contact as children have a tendency to grab things - like your mask. That would be a worrying potential breach for our protective clothing.

In the Isolation Unit this is difficult, as we have to maintain strict no-contact between patients. This means that unaccompanied children miss out on hugs, which is upsetting for everyone. In Treatment Centres, where everyone is confirmed positive, some of the not-so-ill patients can assist in looking after children, which is a wonderful boon. This was epitomized by a little 4 year old we put in an ambulance to a treatment centre along with a relatively well old lady. We handed her the bottle of oral rehydration salts and asked her to make sure he drank on the journey.

My last sight of him, as the doors shut, was of him beaming with delight and stretching out his arms to the first normal looking person offering him a drink in two days. My wish list for paediatric Ebola patients has the employment of survivors to look after them in the unit at the very top. These children are going through enough not to be terrorized by faceless figures in white suits - and the silly singing paediatrician in me will have to remain suppressed for now.

Felicity Fitzgerald qualified as a doctor in 2006. She is paediatrician studying for a PhD in infectious diseases at the UCL Institute of Child Health. A month ago she volunteered to work in Freetown with the King's Sierra Leone Partnership and is working at the Connaught Hospital Ebola Isolation Unit. This is her diary.

You can donate to the Partnership appeal here[http://www.kslp.org.uk/appeal] .

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141202eac20030l


NEWS
The continuing war against Islamic charities
By Alex Delmar-Morgan and Peter Oborne
392 words
2 December 2014
06:20 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The United Arab Emirates (UAE) has designated Islamic Relief a terror group. This is completely ludicrous and defamatory

Last week we wrote about the outrageous attacks made against the Muslim charity Interpal[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/religion/11255294/Why-is-the-Muslim-charity-Interpal-being-blacklisted-as-a-terrorist-organisation.html] as it struggles to provide humanitarian aid to Gaza and elsewhere.

An equally troubling case is Islamic Relief, Britain’s largest Muslim charity. It is part of the Disasters Emergency Committee, a coalition of leading aid agencies that coordinate a response in emergencies. With global income of £173m in 2013, it is a vast operation, delivering aid to 31 countries around the world. Highly respected, the charity receives funding from the British government, UN agencies and the European Commission among others.

On November 15 the United Arab Emirates (UAE) designated Islamic Relief a terror group along with over 80 other organisations, such as Isil, and Al Qaeda.

This charge against Islamic Relief is completely ludicrous and defamatory. UAE has been running a vicious campaign against the Muslim Brotherhood and the designation against Islamic Relief is a by-product of this.

However, the UAE’s decision means it has become very difficult for it to carry out its humanitarian work at a crucial time when the Middle East is in turmoil and the Ebola crisis rages in West Africa. Israel banned Islamic Relief from operating in the West Bank this summer, accusing it of helping fund Hamas.

The UAE’s decision has already been disputed by Norway, Sweden and, crucially, the United States Government.

So far, however, Britain has failed to come out fighting for Islamic Relief. The Government has gone no further than stating that it is seeking clarification from the Emiratis.

This is really disappointing. The Department for International Development (DFID) knows perfectly well Islamic Relief is not a terrorist organisation and that it plays a vital humanitarian role in the work it does around the globe. The Government's silence is even more pathetic when you consider the charity received over £3m in funding from DFID last financial year (2013/14). Both Ms Greening and David Cameron have praised the charity's work recently.

Justine Greening must not give in to the Emiratis. She should come out on the side of Islamic Relief, so the organisation can carry on doing its commendable work unhindered.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141202eac2002uv


Business
Autumn Statement should be abolished altogether
Matthew Lynn
1217 words
2 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
2
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Viewpoint

A break on road tax for white vans. A fund to mark the centenary of the First World War. More money for Ebola research. A windfall tax on payday lenders, and anyone else who has been slagged off on Twitter recently. Even as I write, George Osborne is probably scratching around behind the sofa somewhere in the Treasury for a few wheezes and gimmicks that might grab some headlines after he delivers his Autumn Statement. If he looks under the broken mobile phones, he might even find a few that Gordon Brown left behind.

And yet, in fact, the most useful reform Osborne could deliver is simply this: abolish the Autumn Statement, which has turned into a mini–Budget. Even the main Budget has become bloated and arguably unnecessary. The cut–price version has become about as interesting as an England friendly against Latvia on a wet Tuesday evening – and about as useful as well. Worse, it encourages even more pointless meddling.

Gordon Brown had so many terrible ideas as chancellor that it was often hard to keep track of them all. But the idea of two major statements from the chancellor every year – whilst not quite up there with selling off half the nation's gold as the price reached a record low, or creating a tax system so complex even most accountants can't understand it – was among the very worst.

The country used to get along just fine with just one major set piece occasion from the chancellor every year, where he set out his spending plans, and announced which taxes were going to be tweaked and how much extra was going on a pint of beer. There was a legal requirement to update Parliament on how things were going at some point during the year, but most chancellors managed to do that with a few brief sentences. Indeed, when Ken Clarke was chancellor, he merged all tax and spending announcements into a single Budget statement, which he moved to November. The rest was dealt with in a brief summer statement.

That was not nearly enough for Brown. He was determined to prove just how important he was, and, more pointedly, how he was far more important than the prime minister, Tony Blair. The Budget went back to the spring and the grandly titled Pre–Budget Report was introduced in 1997.

Brown gradually turned the Report into a full–blown Budget speech. Once a year didn't give him enough time to tell us about how he'd ended "Tory boom 'n' bust" or about how he was "investing" in public services.

Nor did it give him enough opportunities to slip all those stealth taxes into the small print to pay for it all. Rather like Brown's ego, the Pre–Budget Report just got bigger and bigger. Lots of new policies were introduced, and others disposed of. The one from 2005, for example, ran to a mind–numbing 5,000 words, and included wheezes such as a new film tax credit to support British films (which in turn led to a huge number of tax schemes the Revenue then had to clamp down on). The one from 2001 stretched to an exhausting 6,000 words, and included such radical gems as the abolition of the football pools tax. There were always lots of leaks, and a lot of gimmicks, until what we ended up with were two Budgets.

In fairness to Osborne, he has scaled that back a bit, replacing it with the Autumn Statement. But it is still in effect a mini–Budget, complete with a big set piece speech, lots of announcements and plenty of hoopla about how the chancellor is setting out the direction for the economy. A couple of years ago, Osborne used it to scrap a 3p rise in fuel duty, rather pointlessly as it turned out, since the oil price has now collapsed. Last year, a tax relief was introduced for investment in social enterprises, and there was a business rate cut for anyone moving into a boarded–up shop. It seems to be obligatory for the chancellor to come up with something that sounds good on the day.

There are two problems with that, however. The first is that it encourages gimmicks. Parkinson's Law famously states that work expands to fill the time available. If C Northcote Parkinson were around today, he might well observe that political initiatives expand to fill the number of set piece occasions available. If you have a big speech, and 24–hour news channels are reporting on it live, you have to say something. So you end up axing some minor tax, or creating a relief for something that sounds virtuous, just so that you have something to say. While this may seem a harmless enough activity, it is not. We have created a tax code that is ever more voluminous, making it impossible for ordinary people to understand. That's fine for expensive accountants, but imposes costs on ordinary people and businesses that they could do without.

Worse, those fiddly little tax breaks often end up being tuned by clever advisers into avoidance schemes. As soon as last year's tax relief was launched, there was probably someone working out how their Luxembourg–based oil futures hedge fund could be quickly re–designated as a "social enterprise". The fewer of those reliefs you have, the better for everyone.

The second problem is that it makes the Government seem more important than it is. Osborne, to his credit, set out a fairly straightforward economic plan on taking office, and has stuck with it. Moderate deficit reduction, near–zero interest rates, keeping business taxes competitive and reviving the housing market with some extra cash has been the formula since 2010. You can agree or disagree with it. But it does not need to be re–booted every six months. The route is already mapped out. A chancellor who constantly lays out new plans creates the impression that what happens to the economy is determined by whoever happens to be in No 11 Downing Street. That is not true. Apart from setting low taxes, and a sensible monetary policy, there isn't much the Government can do influence the economy one way or another. Pretending that you can only inflates expectations and creates demands for yet more intervention from the state.

There are already plenty of leaks about what Osborne might have up his sleeve tomorrow. A tax break for orchestras is rumoured. The air tax might be scrapped for children. No doubt he has kept something back so that there is something to get excited about on the day. In reality, none of it is so earth–shattering that it could not have been dealt with by a simple Treasury press release. And none of it is going to make much difference to anyone.

One Budget a year is more than enough. The best thing Osborne could do tomorrow is stand up, point out that things are going fine, make some jokes about Ed Balls, and then abolish the Autumn Statement altogether.

'The country used to get along fine with just one major set piece occasion from the chancellor every year – '

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141202eac20003i


News
Parents urge private school to drop pupils' trip to Ebola region
Daily Telegraph Reporter
639 words
2 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
15
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Surgeon says he will keep daughter at home, as he warns of risk to the wider community

ONE OF Britain's leading independent schools is being urged by parents, including a senior surgeon, to cancel a trip to West Africa in light of the Ebola crisis.

Staff at £10,500–a–year Cheadle Hulme School are planning to take 25 sixth formers on a week–long excursion to Gambia to give them an insight into the country's way of life.

But the trip, organised by the geography department, has provoked protests because the pupils will be staying just a few hundred miles from the border of Sierra Leone, which is reporting up to 500 new cases of Ebola a week. The virus has already killed almost 7,000 people.

Parents from other schools have also expressed concerns about their children travelling on school buses in future with students from Cheadle Hume School, in Stockport, Greater Manchester, who have returned from the trip.

A leading surgeon, whose daughter was due to go on the field trip urged the 1,400–pupil school to "see sense" and cancel the £700–a–head excursion, saying he and an international group of leading medics had also postponed a humanitarian mission to Ghana, in West Africa, because of the epidemic.

Dr Magdi Hanafy, 58, and his wife Sue, 45, an optometrist, say they will keep their 17–year–old daughter Laura away from school for the 21–day incubation period if her classmates go on the trip.

They have raised their concerns with the Department of Health and the Department for Education.

Dr Hanafy, a father of two, said: "There is no necessity for the trip. In normal circumstances, yes, Gambia is a good experience for them, but in abnormal circumstances, why take the risk? "The whole of West Africa is very dangerous and for the school to feel they are safe is naive. Even if they are safe, they will be able to transmit diseases which could affect the community on their return. This is not only about my daughter. They need to see sense."

Dr Hanafy, based at Leighton Hospital in Crewe, is a member of Hernia International. He and a team of English, Canadian and German medical professionals had been due to travel to Ghana this month to perform free surgery, but cancelled the trip over Ebola fears. He said: "Our decision to postpone the aid trip wasn't taken lightly. We already had our visas and 40 boxes of medication."

His wife Sue said: "When Ebola erupted we changed our minds. We know they say there is no travelling between the three affected countries but a lot of African people walk across the border.

Sarah Cookhill, whose daughter goes to nearby Manchester High School for Girls, said she was worried as fee–paying Withington Girls' School is also taking part in the trip. She said: "Manchester High School get on the same bus as Withington Girls, so everybody is concerned. For the sake of a school trip it seems a farce. Either people are downright stupid or they're happy gambling with safety."

Lucy Pearson, the headteacher of Cheadle Hulme School, said: "We have a rigorous risk assessment procedure for every trip. We have followed guidance from Public Health England, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine and the UN.

"The official advice given indicates that the trip is safe to go ahead. We have held a special meeting with parents to share and discuss this advice, and gave parents and students the choice as to whether they still wished to continue. A small number have chosen to withdraw, yet all families bar one are happy for the trip to continue."

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141202eac20002x


Editorial; Opinion, Columns
Find time for giving as well as shopping
STEPHEN BUBB
822 words
2 December 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
24
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Today's 'Giving Tuesday' offers a great chance to donate your time or money to help the needy

After the frenzy, the scuffles and injuries of "Black Friday", a more benign American import hits Britain today: "Giving Tuesday". This is an antidote to the excesses of pre–Christmas consumerism. It encourages people, charities and businesses to give time and money to help others, or to speak out for a good cause. It's a chance to come together and show the real spirit of the Christmas season – not shopping but giving.

In Britain we don't just spend money on ourselves. The Charities Aid Foundation notes that we're the sixth most generous country in the world. Our magnificent charitable tradition is one of our greatest unsung exports to the world.

Giving Tuesday was created in 2012 to help promote charities and their work. The idea is spreading around the world – to countries as far apart as Canada, Australia, Mexico, Israel and Singapore. In the UK more than 750 businesses, charities and organisations have signed up as partners. Businesses include Argos, Homebase, BT and RBS. Charities include Cancer Research UK, Guide Dogs for the Blind, Diabetes UK and Parkinson's UK.

It is an opportunity to make a donation, volunteer or join a charity campaign for a better world – not only to sing about "peace on earth, goodwill to men" but to work for it in a practical way, too. People are even giving blood, or donating belongings to their local charity shop. Others are taking to Twitter to post #unselfie pictures using the #GivingTuesday hashtag to show support for their favourite causes.

Volunteering has for centuries been at the heart of Britain's free society. It has sustained us through many different periods of change. In the 19th century voluntary action abolished the slave trade and gave us such institutions as the NSPCC and the RSPCA. Today, giving and volunteering support vital services such as St John Ambulance, our lifeboats and our air ambulances. Great military charities such as the Royal British Legion and Help for Heroes care for ex–servicemen and women. In the past few months the Disasters Emergency Committee has depended on the public's generosity to combat Ebola. This Christmas, Crisis is looking for 9,000 volunteers to man residential centres that help rough sleepers in need. Volunteering for charities such as Crisis will help ensure the season of goodwill extends to some of our society's most vulnerable.

My own organisation, ACEVO, brings together the leaders of some of our biggest charities and social enterprises. We are using the season to highlight how well–led, professionally run charities can make a major contribution to the NHS by relieving the acute pressure that cold weather puts on Accident and Emergency departments around the country.

Giving is about living a better life and creating a more generous, less individualistic culture. Voluntary action binds society together. Community groups, churches and mosques build community cohesion and inspire good works, such as food banks. All major world religions are great drivers of charity and volunteering. One of the five pillars of Islam is zakat, or almsgiving. Britain's Muslim charities are under considerable pressure at the moment over their work on the ground in Syria. Up and down the UK we should use Giving Tuesday to rally round to support them. They do our country proud.

Indeed, I couldn't put it better than St Paul's first epistle to Timothy: "Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high–minded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy; That they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate."

So what should you do today, to join in this national celebration? A small act of kindness is all it takes (though a larger one is even better). Give to The Telegraph Christmas Charity Appeal – which this year is supporting The Abbeyfield Society, which provides accommodation for elderly people in Britain; the Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative; and Medical Detection Dogs, which can sniff out cancer and other diseases. On Sunday, The Telegraph's editorial staff will be manning the phones to take your donations.

Or give to a local charity. Say yes to a charity fundraiser if they ask you on the street. In an age of austerity, let's not forget our country's ancient voluntary tradition. It represents the heart of British society of which we should all be proud.

Sir Stephen Bubb is chief executive of ACEVO – the Association of Chief Executives of Voluntary Organisations. ACEVO represents, supports and connects the leaders of the UK's 1,500 largest charities and social enterprises

Comment on Sir Stephen Bubb's view at telegraph.co.uk/personalview

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document DT00000020141202eac20002g


FINANCE
United Cacao sweetens Aim with £23m float
By Lauren Davidson
1027 words
1 December 2014
07:08 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
'Chocolate deficit’ has fuelled the doubling of prices in a decade as demand escalates

The financial adage “invest in what you love” is about to get a lot easier for chocoholics. United Cacao is to float on London’s junior Aim market on Tuesday, making it the first publicly-listed pure-play cocoa bean plantation in the world.

On its pre-flotation roadshow to woo potential investors, the company handed out chocolate bars with an unusual list of ingredients – “freehold land, investment grade country, excellent growing conditions, proven management and tax free zone” – and a caution on the front that read, “Warning: may cause investor excitement”.

The listing comes at a time of unprecedented global demand for chocolate, with production problems in the major supplier countries prompting concerns about an impending chocolate shortage[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/newsbysector/retailandconsumer/11236558/Dont-panic-but-we-could-be-running-out-of-chocolate.html] .

“This is an incredible opportunity to change the confectionery industry,” Dennis Melka, the founder, chairman and chief executive of United Cacao, told The Daily Telegraph. “We’re competing in an industry that really hasn’t changed in 100 years.”

Mr Melka added, “We want to drive change into this very sleepy industry.”

The vast majority of the world’s exported cacao is produced in Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana and, to a lesser extent, Nigeria, which means the industry is “resting on the back of three very fragile African countries”, Mr Melka says.

This corner of West Africa is susceptible to drought and disease, and fears that this region could be hit with Ebola from its infected neighbours[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11157469/Ebola-epidemic-to-threaten-the-worlds-chocolate-supplies.html], Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, saw the price of cocoa surge by more than 10pc in September.

Although cocoa prices have since settled to their pre-summer levels, they are still about a third higher than they were 18 months ago, and have more than doubled in the past decade.

Lauren Bandy, food analyst at Euromonitor International, said, “Pests and diseases, weather (particularly El Nino) and political instability are standard factors fuelling the trend in escalating cocoa prices. None are new, and I expect they will always be there.”

These factors, along with an increase in consumer appetite, particularly in China and India, have prompted several major chocolate manufacturers to warn that the so-called chocolate deficit, where demand outstrips supply, could reach 1m tonnes by 2020 and double that 10 years later.

This is part of the reason why Mr Melka believes United Cacao can be “a positive force of change” in the industry.

United Cacao is based on the mouth of the Amazon in Peru, about 30 minutes away from Iquitos, the fifth-largest city in Peru and the biggest city in the world that is inaccessible by road. Mr Melka calls it “the best place on Earth and the lowest- cost location to grow cacao.”

He highlights the benefits of farming in Peru compared to in West Africa: it’s an investment grade country with positive fiscal balances, zero net debt as a nation, with freehold land, constant regular rainfall each month, a good tradition of agriculture and no export tax.

What’s more, the cocoa bean is indigenous to the South American region.

“All cacao on earth came from there –it’s the home of cacao,” Mr Melka says.

“You have this innovation that you don’t have in Asia and Africa – and no export tax, which means we’re free to send [the cacao] anywhere on Earth.”

United Cacao employs 400 local Peruvian staff, who are paid electronically via direct debit, and the company says it helps the farmers to plant their own cacao by lending where the banks will not.

The company prides itself on this ethical, sustainable approach, and of course charges its customers a premium for it.

Shares will begin trading on the London Aim market on Tuesday morning, under the ticker CHOC. United Cacao raised £6.4m from the sale of 5m shares at 128p each, and will have a valuation of £23m.

Mr Melka said none of the company’s early funders – its directors and private investors – exited their investments in the IPO, and Mr Melka bought an additional $1.4m (£0.9m) worth of stock.

The Czech entrepreneur and former Credit Suisse investment banker has experience on London’s alternative market; he was the co-founder and joint CEO of Asian Plantations Limited, which floated on AIM five years ago at 75p per share and was sold to a strategic acquirer for 220p per share in October, during which time its market cap had grown from £22m to £110m.

United Cacao has approximately 320 hectares of planted crops to date and plans to increase that to 2,000 hectares by the end of 2015 using the proceeds from its IPO, before completing the planting of its existing 3,250-hectare estate a year later. As cacao is a slow-yielding crop, which means it doesn’t produce for several years after planting, United Cacao will sell its first batch of cocoa next year and will reach peak annual production of three tonnes per hectare for the whole estate by 2022, producing approximately 10,000 tonnes a year.

Although United Cacao aims to become the world’s largest single player in the cacao industry by the end of 2016, the company will control a relatively small slice of the global marketplace. In a 4.5m tonne-per-year global industry, as Mr Melka put it, “that’s a rounding error.”

As such a small producer, will United Cacao be able to make a dent in the cacao market it so wishes to disrupt?

“Absolutely,” says Mr Melka. “Consumers read all about the horrific problems in the cacao industry,” where governments are the sole buyers so they get the profits and leave the farmers in perpetual poverty, “ and it’s very difficult [for high street buyers] to trace where the beans are from.”

He believes his company, with its ethical and sustainable approach and its invitation to consumers to visit the Peru plantation, will bring an “unparalleled level of transparency” to the sector.

“It’s a real opportunity to change the buying practices in the confectionary industry.”

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141201eac10012x


Charity appeal: the Ebola crisis will hit the fight against malaria
By Colin Freeman
1297 words
1 December 2014
04:03 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Liberia is struggling to cope with malaria patients in the wake of the deadly epidemic

Back when west Africa was known as the “White Man’s Graveyard”, missionaries used to live in fear of blackwater fever. A side-effect of repeated exposure to malaria that signals imminent kidney failure, it gets a shuddering mention in many accounts of tropical life, from George Orwell’s Burmese Days through to the Graham Greene spy novel, The Heart of the Matter.

Today, thanks to modern anti-malarial medicines, Western visitors who travel in Greene’s footsteps through the mosquito-ridden rainforests of Sierra Leone and Liberia need not fret so much. But among local people, malaria remains a major killer – a far bigger one, in fact, than Ebola, the virus that has claimed more than 5,400 lives across west Africa since February.

To put that into perspective, last year malaria killed nearly 5,000 people in Liberia alone. And it will probably claim far more than that this year, thanks to the decimation of the country’s fragile health service by the Ebola outbreak, which forced most of its major hospitals and clinics to close.

For aid workers, the true human cost of the outbreak lies not just in the thousands of people killed directly by the virus, but the potentially far greater number who die from simple lack of medical attention – be it for malaria, a car accident, or a routine complaint like diarrhoea.

“In Liberia, they normally have thousands of deaths from malaria every year even when the public health service is functioning, so if you imagine how many more have died this year, it may be a multiple of that,” says Richard Allan, the director of the Mentor Initiative, a British NGO that trains Liberian health workers. The Telegraph is supporting this NGO – part of the Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative – this year in its Christmas charity appeal.

“Ebola is the minority killer, rather than the majority killer – it just happens to be the scariest,” says Allan.

A similar point was made recently by no less a figure than the Queen, during a meeting in London earlier this month with one of Britain’s leading infectious disease experts at Chatham House, the international affairs think tank.

She told David Heymann, professor of infectious disease epidemiology at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, that her own physician had pointed out that malaria was a greater killer than Ebola, and remarked to Mr Heymann: “After Ebola, we will still have malaria.”

The Royal family, as it happens, have personal experience of the risk that malaria presents in the “White Man’s Graveyard”. In 1896, the disease claimed the life of Prince Henry of Battenberg, the husband of Queen Victoria’s youngest daughter, Beatrice, when he was fighting the kings of the Ashanti empire in what is now modern-day Ghana.

More than a century on, malaria is still killing in much the same way and, just like Ebola, there is as yet no vaccine that can prevent it. A few doses of anti-malarial agents are all that is normally required to save a child from dying from it. But in a land that is still recovering from a 14-year civil war, access to clinics is patchy at the best of times, especially in remote areas.

Liberia is also a mosquito’s paradise. Home to some of Africa’s last remaining natural rainforest, it is one of the wettest nations on the planet, and every monsoon season, torrential rains turn it into one giant mosquito breeding ground – many of them carrying the Plasmodium falciparum parasite that causes the most deadly form of malaria. It leads to the rupture of red blood cells, and thereby the darkening of the urine that causes blackwater fever.

As such, malaria is still the biggest killer in Liberia, claiming 17 per cent of all deaths, followed by diarrhoea at 11 per cent, and HIV, tuberculosis and malnutrition at 5 per cent each.

So how many additional victims will these various killers claim this year? That is hard to say. Despite the plethora of aid agencies now working in Liberia, the chaos that accompanied the collapse of the country’s health system in the summer means that there are no proper mortality statistics. For the past six months, people who have died because they were unable to access medical care have often been quickly buried with no questions asked.

However, a visit by The Telegraph to Liberia during the peak of the Ebola outbreak in August gave a grim snapshot of the situation. In rural Bong County, four hours’ drive through the rainforest from the capital, Monrovia, six medics at Phebe Hospital, the area’s only local A&E facility, had already caught Ebola, forcing it to close.

Those who brought dying loved ones to Phebe’s gates for treatment were greeted only by teams of security guards – who were armed with clubs to keep angry families away.

In the tiny township next to the hospital, two residents had died from routine medical complaints in the past week alone. One of them had been an existing patient at Phebe, who had been turfed out his bed when the hospital shut.

“We reopened in September, but we expect that a lot of people died as a result of the hospital being shut,” Kerson Saykor, the administrator of Phebe Hospital, told The Telegraph last week. “How many, though, we have no idea.”

With the state health service in paralysis, much of the slack over the past six months has been taken up by private pharmacies, which in Liberia are usually small shacks selling a few basic drugs. In the past two years, Mentor has trained nearly 300 of them in basic medical techniques, working on the principle that some health care is better than nothing at all.

The “dispensers”, as the charity calls them, have proved a vital lifeline in many communities, but they have also paid a price. Three are believed to have caught Ebola, having become a magnet for sick people in their neighbourhoods.

Due to concerns about Ebola transmission, Mentor has also had to suspend a malaria-testing service that it had trained the dispensers to use, because it requires a pinprick of blood from a patient.

Indeed, any medical process in Liberia that involves blood is now a fraught business. Such is the paranoia about Ebola infection that many medics are nervous about applying intravenous drips, while ambulances – if they are available – are often scared to pick up patients who are bleeding badly. All of which makes life even more dangerous for Mentor’s staff in the field.

“The idea of an ambulance coming to pick someone up if they are bleeding is simply not workable at the moment, so we carry as much of our own medical trauma kit as possible,” says David Luke, the country director of Mentor in Liberia.

“A car accident is as big a threat right now as Ebola.”

While Liberia’s health service is now in partial recovery again – nearly 50 per cent of hospitals and clinics are open and running – the other way forward is to encourage every household to observe sound hygiene practices. And that is where the Masanga Mentor Ebola Initiative comes in; the charity is planning a major programme to train communities in disease-control techniques, for Ebola and other infectious illnesses.

For many families that have lost loved ones to Ebola, those lessons have already been learnt the hard way. But if one positive thing can emerge from the Ebola crisis, it is that such epidemics may at least be prevented in the future.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141201eac1001gx


Nicolas Sarkozy's greatest asset? The hatred of the Left
By Anne-Elisabeth Moutet
684 words
1 December 2014
02:31 AM
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
English
The Telegraph Online © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The venom directed towards France's former president may work to his advantage

French politics, never a happy place at the best of times, takes on a special hysteria when Nicolas Sarkozy appears. Just as an otherwise sensible New York friend once told me a decade ago, in all seriousness, that she’d like to kill the then president George W. Bush with a stake through the heart, and anti-Thatcher groups threw celebration parties when the Baroness died, the man some call the “elevator-shoed poison dwarf of Europe” provokes blinding rage in his critics.

Many of them, quelle surprise, belong to the media and chattering classes. Hence headlines on the Left and Right commenting on Sarkozy’s “defeat” as he was elected to the head of the UMP party with 64.5 per cent of the vote last weekend. What they object to, of course, is what will happen next: his presidential bid in 2017.

No matter that François Hollande ranks at under 13 per cent in the opinion polls, unemployment has plateaued at 3.5 million, and Marine Le Pen scores close to 30 per cent of the national vote in the polls, all but guaranteeing her a place in the 2017 run-off. In private, a Socialist senior adviser involved in the last two presidential campaigns may have told me “the only true rampart against Le Pen is Sarkozy”, but she refused to be quoted. Sarkozy’s return has been likened to the spread of Ebola and the Ten Plagues. The UMP electronic voting

system was hacked for several hours with a Stuxnet-like virus, as if Sarko’s victory was on a par with Iran acquiring a nuclear device.

Stopping Sarko at all costs means François Hollande has been regularly seeing two Le Monde reporters who have investigated scandals attached to Sarkozy’s name, such as allegations that he was financed by the L’Oréal heiress Liliane Bettencourt, and a possible implication in kickbacks for a Pakistani arms deal more than 20 years ago, of which he has already been cleared in the French courts.

Ironically, it was the Le Monde reporters who gave Sarkozy’s complaint that he was unfairly targeted by judges some substance. In their book Sarko s’est tuer, Gérard Davet and Fabrice Lhomme revealed that François Fillon, Sarkozy’s former PM, and his likely rival for the conservative nomination for the 2017 election, had begged Jean-Pierre Jouyet, the chief of staff at the Elysée Palace, and a personal friend of Hollande, to “hasten the judicial investigations” against the former president. “He’s coming back! He will return!” Fillon reportedly said at a secret lunch with Jouyet, as if announcing the zombie apocalypse.

Sarkozy’s enemies in his own camp hate him perhaps even more than most Socialists. The Davet-Lhomme book ended up harming Fillon far more than Sarko; but Sarkozy’s own partisans (and he still has many) among the rank and file spoiled last weekend’s proceedings when they booed Sarko’s most serious contender for the presidency, Alain Juppé, the former prime minister under Chirac, and the mayor of Bordeaux, at a rally in his own city. Sarko didn’t stop them in time. This was, to almost one third of the party members, a return of the old-style Sarko — and so they voted for his two rivals in the contest.

Can the “new” Sarkozy acknowledge his mistakes as he makes them? Yes, according to his entourage: he was apparently furious about the Bordeaux rally. He immediately extended a hand of peace to his UMP rivals, which seemed sincere, even though almost no one gives him credit for it.

But, in the end, the anti-Sarko frenzy may serve him well with the French: it has already given him the stature of an outsider, fighting the establishment on all fronts – no mean feat when you’ve already been president of the French Republic for a full mandate – and neatly stealing Marine Le Pen’s USP.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Document TELUK00020141201eac10015p


© 2015 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.	
 