
Factiva
Dow Jones
A
DOWNFALL FOR HOSPITAL WHERE THE VIRUS SPREAD
71 words
16 October 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
1
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Scrutiny of Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital intensifies as officials seek to calm workers and patients after second nurse Amber Joy Vinson is confirmed to have Ebola virus; there has been no comprehensive investigation to date of the hospital's missteps, but Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and Texas Dept of State Health Services are evaluating the hospital's performance. Photos (M)

Combination

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141017eaag00016


A
LAX U.S. GUIDELINES ON EBOLA LED TO POOR HOSPITAL TRAINING, EXPERTS SAY
By DONALD G MCNEIL JR
76 words
16 October 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
18
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Infection control experts say many American hospitals have improperly trained their staffs to deal with Ebola patients because they were following federal guidelines that were too lax; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has issued stricter guidelines; photos and chart highlight changes from CDC and illustrate difficulties involved in removing protective gear safely. Photos, Chart (M)

Combination

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141017eaag0002v


A
C.D.C. DIRECTOR BECOMES FACE OF NATION'S WORRY AND FLAWED RESPONSE
By SABRINA TAVERNISE
67 words
16 October 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
19
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Dr Thomas R Frieden, director of Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and nation's top public health official, has become face of Obama administration's flawed response to Ebola in United States; Frieden is likely to face withering questions about his record during a congressional hearing. Photo (M)

Photograph

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141017eaag0002x


A
EXPERTS OFFER STEPS FOR AVOIDING PUBLIC HYSTERIA, A DIFFERENT CONTAGIOUS THREAT
By BENEDICT CAREY
61 words
16 October 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
20
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Psychologists say that with a growing number of Ebola cases now documented in the United States, next few weeks are crucial in containing a level of public anxiety that could become contagious, leading to emergency rooms overwhelmed with people afraid they have contracted the virus. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141017eaag0002z


First Draft
Congressman Urges C.D.C. Director to Read the News
ALAN RAPPEPORT
208 words
16 October 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
Members of Congress suggested on Thursday that Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, does not grasp the gravity of the Ebola crisis. And that he does not read the news.

Making the case that a travel ban from West Africa should be imposed to prevent people infected with Ebola from coming to the United States, Representative Billy Long, a Missouri Republican, said that Dr. Frieden should have read an article this month that detailed the grim situation in a hospital in Sierra Leone[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/02/world/africa/ebola-spreading-in-west-africa.html?module=Search&mabReward=relbias%3Ar%2C{%221%22%3A%22RI%3A6%22}].

Recommending that Dr. Frieden Google the article’s headline, “A Hospital From Hell, in a City Swamped by Ebola,” in The New York Times, Mr. Long said, “If you get a chance to read that, I think that everyone would be in favor of the travel restriction we’ve talked about here today.”

The C.D.C. has maintained that screening travelers is more effective than blocking travel in containing the Ebola epidemic. Dr. Frieden said he could not say[http://www.c-span.org/video/?321976-1/hearing-us-response-ebola-outbreak] to what degree travel restrictions would reduce the number of people with the virus making it into the United States.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141016eaag00360


Times Insider
Life and Death Through the Eyes of an Ebola Nurse
BEN C. SOLOMON
483 words
16 October 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
Ben C. Solomon is a Times video journalist reporting on Ebola. His video today, about a team of ambulance workers in Monrovia, Liberia, shows the dangers they face every day.

I’ve been covering Ebola in West Africa for nearly two months. Being here for so long, I’ve watched the virus spread, and it has been a devastating sight. The virus devours entire families; it preys on affection and spreads most quickly between people who love each other.

While following the ambulance teams, I saw the spread in real time. On a Monday, they would rush to pick up a sick mother, only to return the following Friday to pick up her children.

I spent three weeks following an ambulance nurse, Gordon Kamara, and his crew. They were committed to taking me along, eager to make a record of the horrible things they would see. The stories of horror were all too regular.

Safety came first. Gordon and his team would regularly rush into the most exposed areas of the city. In order to film them, I had to be prepared in the most challenging situations.

The virus spreads through bodily fluids: blood, feces, vomit and sweat, to name a few. You can never be sure when it is around you, so you must always expect that it is close by.

Vigilance is essential. After each outing, my colleagues and I spray down with a potent mixture of chlorine and bleach. Using a five-gallon chemical spray bottle, we cover anything and everything that could have been exposed. We spray our bodies, cameras, boots and clothing. Most of my clothes are covered in bleach stains and I’ve broken a camera.

Getting to know Gordon took time and trust. While he was willing to discuss what he and his crew have seen, he was reluctant to talk about how this painful work was affecting him. It wasn’t until after two weeks of daily runs and late nights that he began to share his life with me. He talked about his isolation, his loneliness and his love for his family. Gaining his trust was one of the most rewarding parts of my work.

One of the hardest parts of covering the outbreak is watching it spread among the kindhearted. In both Liberia and Sierra Leone, many of the infected people I’ve encountered and interviewed have been largely the same: caring, open, brave and honest. Even in times of intimate sadness, they are eager to welcome an American journalist as one of their own.

As the outbreak continues to spread, we’ve learned that the best defense seems to be knowledge. But even though the understanding of the virus has grown, it continues to ravage the small, tight-knit communities I am working in.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141016eaag003ml


Nicholas Kristof
Opinion
Step One to Fighting Ebola? Start with Corruption
By JOSH RUXIN
1098 words
16 October 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
The story of the current Ebola pandemic appears still in its opening chapter. Will the virus be contained, or will it spread its horror across Africa and beyond? The question is being raised around many family tables, including ours, particularly as my wife and I and our three small children, New Yorkers, live in Rwanda where I work in public health and she operates a job training program and a gourmet restaurant[http://www.heavenrwanda.com/]. There is a bit of fear in the air here as everywhere, but it is tempered by what we know about Africa.

Since March, more than 4,000 people, including over a hundred medical workers, have died of the Ebola virus in Western Africa. Why have the health systems in these countries, after billions of dollars in international aid, lost control of this modern plague? For starters, most African nations scarcely have anything we would call a health system, despite aid programs and waves of dedicated medical and development volunteers. As fast as we can pour resources in, the thousand cuts of corruption and poor business practices let it leak out. Like Ebola itself, corruption is a hemorrhaging disease. When aid programs fail because of corruption, further aid programs are discouraged. Ultimately, little health clinics with empty shelves, peeling paint and no staff are left to rot under the jungle trees.

I have seen those pathetic health facilities, but in Rwanda I’ve seen them cleaned up, restocked with the best medicines, nurses and doctors, and now prepared for what may come this way from West Africa. What has been done in Rwanda, however, is not possible in countries rife with corruption. Here in Rwanda, no one has ever put a hand out to me for a bribe – not once in the near decade I’ve lived here. That lack of hemorrhaging is what will enable us to stop Ebola here. Ebola is a marker for corruption on high, just as entrenched poverty is a marker for corruption on high. In the great influenza plague of 1918, when twenty million people died worldwide, the great difference between a country that suffered greatly, like India, and a country that suffered little at all, like Denmark, was the strength of the middle class. The strength of the middle class is most commonly a function of public and private health, and clean, just governance.

If we want to get serious about addressing the current and coming plagues, we must create universal access to quality health care, and that is only possible if the corruption that is now taken so much for granted in poor countries is eliminated. According to Transparency International[http://www.transparency.org/], Guinea[http://www.transparency.org/country#GIN] – the origin of this pandemic – is ranked 150 out of 177 countries for corruption, while Sierra Leone[http://www.transparency.org/country#SLE] is ranked 117 and Liberia[http://www.transparency.org/country#LBR] is ranked 83. Improving the health systems in the most corrupt and poorest nations should be at the top of our To Do list. Taking actions is not simply the moral thing to do, it’s in our own best interest. Let’s start now, before the next virus, perhaps many times more communicable, rises up to challenge us all.

Of course, corruption is not entirely to blame. Many Asian nations were famously corrupt while channeling substantive resource to build out their infrastructure and health systems. There’s an old development joke about a couple wealthy guys – one from Africa, one from Asia – who go to university together and years later meet up in their respective nations. The African arrives at the Asian’s residence – a massive estate with a few smart cars in the driveway and remarks, “You’ve done well, how’d you do it?” The friend replies, “You notice that superhighway you rode in on from the airport?” “Yes, it was stunning!” “5 percent of that project went in my pocket.” A few months later the Asian finds himself in Africa and heads out to his friend’s residence. It’s gigantic with dozens of Rolls Royces and sports cars scattered around. “Wow, I thought I had done well, but you’ve certainly beaten me. How’d you do it?” The African responds: “See that superhighway you rode in on?” “No,” he replies, “The road was atrocious!” “Ahh,” replies the African, “100 percent of that project in my pocket!”

Rwanda certainly doesn’t fit the caricature. My wife and I are encouraged by what we have seen here. Soon after the close of the 1994 genocide, the government of Rwanda recognized that health is, literally, wealth, and set out to refurbish and build out several hundred facilities across the country. Today, twenty years on, its national health insurance program[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/05/science/rwandas-health-care-success-story.html?_r=1&] enables citizens to access regular lifesaving treatments[http://www-ncbi-nlm-nih-gov.proxy.bc.edu/pmc/articles/PMC3548616/] without going into destitution. Its maternal and child health have, arguably, improved faster than in any other country, ever. Its health care system has become adept at handling HIV by offering free testing and treatment with no waiting list for drugs. The system is quick on its feet, well connected with communication and ambulances to handle new disease threats. Indeed, national community initiatives such as Umuganda[http://www.kwibuka.rw/events/events-listing/global-umuganda-day-of-global-service] (a monthly day of service) are already educating the population about best hygiene practices. Most importantly, the people trust the medical system and the government. Panic is the greatest threat to the containment of a pandemic. Panic happens easiest where there is little trust.

What’s needed today is agile funding for health systems, both public and private. Where corrupt ministries are bound to squander funds, private centers must be built and staffed, funded by private donors and forward-thinking foundations. Where well-meaning ministries exist, their efforts must be bolstered with technology and management interventions – good, American-style management systems, such as the ones introduced so successfully in Rwanda. At the same time, international pressure against corruption in poor nations must finally begin in earnest. In the long run, that will do more than all the aid groups can achieve. Where corruption is ended, prosperity thrives, and in a prosperous land, people can afford their own family health care. That is when they are safe from such things as Ebola. When they are safe, we all are safe – and only then.

Corruption and Ebola are essentially the same hemorrhaging disease. If we cure corruption, we will have the healthy planet we all truly want and our children deserve.

Josh Ruxin is the author of A Thousand Hills to Heaven: Love, Hope and a Restaurant in Rwanda[http://www.hachettebookgroup.com/titles/josh-ruxin/a-thousand-hills-to-heaven/9780316232913/] and executive director of Health Builders[http://www.globalhealthbuilders.org].

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141016eaag002mi


DealBook
Business Day; Dealbook
Shivers in the Markets Portend a Freeze in Deal Circles
By DAVID GELLES
1050 words
16 October 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
Wall Street’s big year of deal-making may have ended early — after peaking on the morning of Sept. 19.

It was then that the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba went public with a valuation of more than $168 billion [http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/09/19/a-soaring-debut-for-alibaba/]. Eight minutes later, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index hit an all-time high. Earlier that week, several big acquisitions were announced.

Now, less than a month later, September’s exuberance feels like a distant memory.

The S.&P. 500 has fallen more than 7 percent. Alibaba still trades above its offer price, but other initial public offerings have been shelved for now. Merger and acquisition announcements have slowed.

“If we get a lot more volatility and there’s a significant correction, there’s a real risk that deals could get pulled,” said Mark G. Shafir, co-head of global mergers and acquisitions at Citigroup [http://dealbook.on.nytimes.com/public/overview?symbol=C&inline=nyt-org].

All year, the stock markets have advanced, initial public offerings have boomed, and mergers and acquisitions have roared back to their highest levels since the financial crisis.

The more than $1.3 trillion in announced mergers and acquisitions so far this year in the United States is the highest amount on record, according to Dealogic, fueled by megadeals like Comcast [http://dealbook.on.nytimes.com/public/overview?symbol=CMCSA&inline=nyt-org]’s $45 billion purchase of Time Warner Cable [http://dealbook.on.nytimes.com/public/overview?symbol=TWC&inline=nyt-org] and Medtronic [http://dealbook.on.nytimes.com/public/overview?symbol=MDT&inline=nyt-org]’s $43 billion deal for Covidien [http://dealbook.on.nytimes.com/public/overview?symbol=COV&inline=nyt-org]. The more than $81 billion in I.P.O.s is the most since 2000, the height of the dot-com boom, led by the Alibaba offering.

In a few short days, however, much of that optimism has evaporated. Bankers across Wall Street say that deals on the verge of being announced are suddenly delayed. I.P.O.s set for this week and next are postponed indefinitely. And the confidence that had fueled record levels of deal-making is nowhere to be found.

“When you’re buying and selling companies, you need stability in the markets,” said Michael Carr, head of Americas M.&A. for Goldman Sachs [http://dealbook.on.nytimes.com/public/overview?symbol=GS&inline=nyt-org]. “It doesn’t take much for stocks to get out of alignment, and that’s what is going on right now.”

The sustained run of mergers and acquisitions is particularly vulnerable to suddenly volatile markets, several senior investment bankers said. A majority of the deals announced this year have involved at least partial payment in stock.

“Unlike on the trading side of the business, volatility is not our friend in M.&A.,” Mr. Shafir noted.

When the acquirer’s stock suddenly loses value, what was once an economical deal can suddenly seem unaffordable. Similarly, when a company that was poised to sell sees its stock fall, executives often want to wait for the stock price to recover before selling to get the best possible price.

“A good M.&A. market happens when both parties are comfortable with the relative relationships between their two stocks,” Mr. Carr said. “That relationship is a really narrow and sensitive band.”

But with companies’ valuations jumping around, many deals are expected to be delayed until the markets stabilize.

For companies seeking to go public, the roller coaster markets are similarly disruptive.

“The market is taking a breath, and therefore the I.P.O. market will also take a breath,” said David Hermer, global head of equity capital markets at Credit Suisse [http://dealbook.on.nytimes.com/public/overview?symbol=CS&inline=nyt-org]. “Issuers are standing on the sideline for the moment.”

In Europe, a handful of planned I.P.O.s were withdrawn in the last two weeks, including those of the British bank Aldermore, the Italian cosmetics company Intercos, the French energy services company Spie, and the Italian technology company Italiaonline.

With renewed fears of an economic slowdown in Europe, sustained unrest in the Middle East and Ukraine, and swelling fears of Ebola around the globe, the markets may not stage a strong recovery anytime soon.

“There’s a lot of stuff going on the world right now,” said Neil Dhar, United States capital markets leader at PricewaterhouseCoopers. “Volatility is not the friend of an I.P.O. It creates a lot of angst in the marketplace.”

And still, many deal makers said they believed that the underlying conditions for mergers, acquisitions and I.P.O.s remained healthy. Investors are looking for growth, which leads to deals and new public offerings. And companies have lots of cash to spend.

“A one or two week up-and-down in the marketplace isn’t going to change global M.&A. activity overnight,” Mr. Dhar said. “It’s not the sign of a death knell for new issuance through the end of the year.”

And there are some bright spots.

Several big breakups and spinoffs, including those of Hewlett-Packard [http://dealbook.on.nytimes.com/public/overview?symbol=HPQ&inline=nyt-org], eBay [http://dealbook.on.nytimes.com/public/overview?symbol=EBAY&inline=nyt-org] and Symantec [http://dealbook.on.nytimes.com/public/overview?symbol=SYMC&inline=nyt-org], could lead to activity in the months ahead. Big industrial groups like DuPont and Dow are also expected to sell off business units.

“In the pipeline there are a huge amount of spinoffs,” said Sriram Prakash, global head of M.&A. insight at Deloitte. “Those are likely to keep the M.&A. markets busy.”

What is more, if stock prices fall precipitously and remain low, some companies may go after targets that suddenly seem affordable.

“Some opportunistic corporate players who have cash and a strong balance sheet may take the opportunity to act in a market when values are down,” Mr. Carr said.

Private equity [http://dealbook.nytimes.com/category/main-topics/private-equity/?inline=nyt-classifier] firms, which have largely held back from buying companies this year, might also be emboldened by a sustained dip in corporate valuations.

Noting the $18 billion war chest in its possession, the private equity giant Blackstone Group [http://dealbook.on.nytimes.com/public/overview?symbol=BX&inline=nyt-org] said it would look for opportunities in the market turmoil.

“We are uniquely positioned to take advantage of market volatility across all of our businesses,” Stephen A. Schwarzman [http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/s/stephen_a_schwarzman/index.html?inline=nyt-per], Blackstone’s chairman and chief executive, told analysts on Thursday. “With one of the largest pools of dry powder capital, we can and will move quickly to respond to market dislocations. These types of investment environments end up becoming some of our best vintages.”

Fears That Pimco and Other Big Firms Could Be Unable to Unload Risky Bonds [http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/pimco-and-other-big-firms-could-face-liquidity-crisis-in-risky-bonds/]

Market Turbulence Serves as Reminder to Tread Lightly [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/your-money/a-good-time-to-check-your-portfolio.html]

Calm Returns to Wall St., but Europe Remains a Worry [http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/u-s-stocks-open-lower/]

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141017eaag00002


National Desk; SECT
Ebola-Infected Health Worker Took Flight From Cleveland to Dallas
By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS
601 words
16 October 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
The New York Times on the Web
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The second Dallas health care worker to test positive for Ebola took a flight on Monday from Cleveland to the Dallas area the day before she reported symptoms of the disease, federal health officials said Wednesday.

The head of the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, said that the worker should not have been on a commercial flight, but that the risk to the 132 passengers on the plane was ''extrememly low.''

The health care worker, identified as Amber Joy Vinson, reported having a fever on Tuesday and was isolated a short time later at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital.

''She should not have travelled, should not have been allowed to travel by virtue she was in an exposed group,'' Dr. Frieden said at a news conference on Wednesday. But, he added, ''she did not vomit, she was not bleeding'' so that it was highly unlikely that any others on the flight had contracted the virus.

Still, Sylvia M. Burwell, secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, said that the C.D.C. was reaching out to passengers on Frontier Airlines Flight 1143 ''because of the proximity in time between the evening flight and first report of illness the following morning.''

The airline said plane landed in Dallas-Fort Worth at 8:16 p.m. Monday and remained at the airport over night.

Ms. Vinson, the second Dallas health worker found to be infected, was part of the medical team at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital that cared for Thomas Eric Duncan, the Ebola patient who was admitted to the hospital on Sept. 28 and who died a week ago.

Ms. Vinson had ''extensive contact'' with the patient at a time when Mr. Duncan was vomiting and had diarrhea, Dr. Frieden said. He confirmed the accounts of nurses that a wide variety of protective gear was used in the first few days, including two and three layers of protective gear and gloves by some workers, which in fact is harder to remove safely.

Ms. Vinson was one of 76 health care workers at Presbyterian who were being monitored daily for symptoms of Ebola, including a self-administered temperature check. She was not in quarantine and was allowed to travel because she had exhibited no symptoms of Ebola, including a high fever, vomiting or diarrhea.

Dr. Frieden said that federal and local public health officials are now ensuring that none of the more than 100 people being monitored for Ebola will take commercial flights.

Frontier Airlines initially said that Ms. Vinson had flown to Cleveland from Dallas on Friday, but Cleveland health officials said Wednesday that she had arrived in Cleveland on October 8 and left the city on Oct. 13.

Cleveland authorities said they were cleaning the airport particularly carefully, and that there was no evidence that anyone in the city had been sickened.

Crew members on the return flight said Ms. Vinson had shown no signs of illness, Dr. Freiden said.

The agency asked that all 132 passengers who took the flight contact the federal health authorities (1-800-232-4636).

''Individuals who are determined to be at any potential risk will be actively monitored,'' the C.D.C.said in a statement.

Frontier Airlines said in a statement that the aircraft ''received a thorough cleaning per our normal procedures,'' which the airline said were consistent with C.D.C. guidelines, on Monday night at Dallas-Fort Worth and that it was then cleaned again Tuesday night in Cleveland.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141016eaag0004z


National Desk; SECTA
New Ebola Case Confirmed, U.S. Vows Vigilance
By MANNY FERNANDEZ and JACK HEALY; Reporting was contributed by Kevin Sack and David Montgomery from Dallas, Alan Cowell from London, Sabrina Tavernise from Atlanta, Julie Hirschfeld Davis, Michael Shear and Jonathan Martin from Washington, and Timothy Williams from New York.
1614 words
16 October 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
1
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
DALLAS -- New shortcomings emerged Wednesday in the nation's response to the Ebola virus after it was revealed that a second nurse was infected with Ebola at a hospital here and that she had traveled on a commercial flight the day before she showed symptoms of the disease.

The nurse, Amber Joy Vinson, 29, was on the medical team that cared for the Ebola victim Thomas Eric Duncan after he was admitted to the hospital on Sept. 28 and put in isolation. Ms. Vinson should not have traveled on a commercial flight, the director of the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said after learning that she was a passenger on Frontier Airlines Flight 1143 on Monday, flying from Cleveland to Dallas-Fort Worth.

But hours after the director, Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, made that statement, one official said that Ms. Vinson had indeed called the C.D.C. before boarding the plane, but was allowed to fly because she did not have a fever.

A second case of Ebola among the nearly 100 doctors, nurses and assistants who treated Mr. Duncan for 10 days at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital was not unexpected. For days, federal health officials have warned that in addition to Nina Pham, the first nurse in Dallas to receive an Ebola diagnosis, other cases were likely.

But the appearance of a new Ebola patient replayed a public-health drama that unfolded here twice before in a two-week period. The day also provided more signs of concern about federal officials' ability to control the spread of the disease, particularly to health care workers, and indications that the issue was becoming politicized.

President Obama on Wednesday night changed his travel plans for a second day, canceling trips to Rhode Island and New York City that were scheduled for Thursday so he could stay at the White House to oversee the government's Ebola response, officials said. Cities and states adopted more security measures, and Ms. Vinson was being treated at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta rather than in Dallas -- all signs of the heightened focus on the disease and the fears it has stirred.

Speaker John A. Boehner on Wednesday became the highest-profile Republican to urge Mr. Obama to consider a ban on travel to the United States from West African countries where Ebola is spreading rapidly. The same point has been raised by several Republicans in tight Senate races, including David Perdue of Georgia, Mike Rounds of South Dakota and Joni Ernst of Iowa.

Officials at Kent State University in Ohio, where Ms. Vinson studied nursing and her mother and two other relatives work, asked the three family members to stay off campus for three weeks, ''out of an abundance of caution.'' Frontier Airlines said it had put the two pilots and four flight attendants who had worked on Flight 1143 on paid leave.

Mr. Obama directed his aides to monitor the spread of Ebola in the United States ''in a much more aggressive way,'' but said Americans should remain confident of the government's ability to prevent a widespread outbreak. He promised that a review of the Ebola cases in Dallas would discover what allowed the two hospital workers to be infected, but he said that he himself had come into close contact with the nurses who treated Ebola patients at the Emory University hospital, and that he had felt safe doing so.

''I want people to understand that the dangers of you contracting Ebola, the dangers of a serious outbreak, are extraordinarily low, but we are taking this very seriously at the highest levels of government,'' Mr. Obama said.

Still, there was widespread unease. The Frontier jet that carried Ms. Vinson on Monday made five flights the next day, according to Flightaware.com. Frontier, which is based in Denver, said it grounded the plane as soon as it was notified, about 1 a.m. Wednesday, about the Ebola patient.

The first nurse who was infected, Ms. Pham, 26, remained in good condition, the hospital said. Ms. Vinson was ill but stable as she was transferred Wednesday to Emory, one of four hospitals in the United States that have special containment units for isolating patients with dangerous infectious diseases.

Though Ms. Vinson had traveled on Monday, the day before she reported symptoms, she had been among a group of hospital workers at Presbyterian who were being monitored after Ebola was diagnosed on Sunday in Ms. Pham. And although her temperature did not meet the fever threshold of 100.4 degrees, Ms. Vinson reported to health officials that her temperature at the time she traveled was 99.5.

''Because at that point she was in a group of individuals known to have exposure to Ebola, she should not have traveled on a commercial airline,'' Dr. Frieden said. ''The C.D.C. guidance in this setting outlines the need for what is called 'controlled movement.' That can include a charter plane, that can include a car but it does not include public transport.''

Hours after Dr. Frieden spoke, a federal health official who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk publicly, said that because it was thought that Ms. Vinson's protective gear would have kept her safe and because her temperature was only mildly elevated, she fell into a category not covered by C.D.C. guidelines.

''I don't think we actually said she could fly, but they didn't tell her she couldn't fly,'' the official said. He said the error was on the part of the C.D.C., not the nurse. ''She called us,'' he said. ''I really think this one is on us.''

Because of the proximity between the evening flight Monday and her first report of being ill on Tuesday morning, the C.D.C. asked all 132 passengers on the flight to call a C.D.C. hotline. The flight landed at 8:16 p.m. Monday at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport. Dr. Frieden stressed that the passengers were a low-risk group. Because Ms. Vinson did not have a fever and did not experience nausea or vomiting on the plane, the risk ''to any around that individual on the plane would have been extremely low,'' he said.

On Tuesday evening, a nurses' union, National Nurses United, released a scathing statement that it said was composed by nurses at Presbyterian Hospital. The statement told of ''confusion and frequently changing policies and protocols,'' of inadequate protection against contamination and spotty training among the nurses who treated Mr. Duncan when he arrived by ambulance at the emergency room on Sept. 28.

Dr. Frieden said the critical period at Presbyterian was the first three days of Mr. Duncan's care before his Ebola infection was confirmed and before the C.D.C. team arrived in Dallas -- Sept. 28, 29 and 30. Both Ms. Pham and Ms. Vinson had extensive contact with Mr. Duncan at that time, and both had interacted with him while he was producing a large amount of fluids from vomiting and diarrhea.

Although officials have not yet determined how the two nurses became infected, they were focusing on their use of personal protective equipment.

''When our team arrived, the same day the case was diagnosed, we noticed, for example, that some health care workers were putting on three or four layers of protective equipment in the belief that this would be more protective,'' Dr. Frieden said. ''But in fact by putting on more layers of gloves or other protective clothing, it becomes much harder to put them on and much harder to take them off, and the risk of contamination during the process of taking these gloves off gets much higher.''

Ms. Vinson traveled to Cleveland on Friday from Dallas-Fort Worth, on Frontier Airlines Flight 1142, officials said. At that point, she was part of a group of health care workers that had been on a self-monitoring regimen, as Ms. Pham had been. Ms. Pham's illness was diagnosed on Sunday while Ms. Vinson was in Ohio. After that, C.D.C. officials put the health care workers who had been self-monitoring under more intensive evaluation.

Tara Mosley-Samples, a longtime friend of Ms. Vinson's mother and a city councilwoman in Akron, Ohio, said Ms. Vinson studied nursing at Kent State and moved to Texas about a year ago. ''They're just good people,'' Ms. Mosley-Samples said. ''Her daughter, Amber, is the sweetest little girl in the world.''

Ms. Vinson frequently traveled to Ohio from Texas to visit her mother, who works in the president's office at Kent State. Her trip last weekend, however, had a more specific purpose. She had recently become engaged. She flew home to plan for her wedding with her mother, said Toinette Parrilla, director of the Cleveland Department of Public Health. ''They were doing their bridal shopping and going to the bridal stores,'' she said.

An ambulance on Wednesday took Amber Joy Vinson to the Dallas airport for transport to Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. Workers also cordoned off her apartment. In Washington, President Obama directed his aides to monitor the Ebola outbreak in a ''more aggressive way.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAIME R. CARRERO/REUTERS; SANA SYED/CITY OF DALLAS PUBLIC INFORMATION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS; JABIN BOTSFORD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20)

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141016eaag0004r


World; Africa
Because of Ebola, Ambulance Work in Liberia Is a Busy and Lonely Business
By BEN C. SOLOMON
1101 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
MONROVIA, Liberia — Racing along cracked and bumpy roads here, Gordon Kamara shouted into his cellphone over the shrieking sirens of his ambulance. The phone had been ringing nonstop since 5 a.m.

“Not today! Not today!” Mr. Kamara, an ambulance nurse, yelled later in the day. “We are on the opposite side of town!”

The calls have all been the same in recent weeks: from friends, friends of friends, extended family, complete strangers. All of them have loved ones sick with Ebola[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/09/world/africa/ebola-cases-reported-up-sharply-in-liberia.html] and beg him to come quickly. Seven days a week, Mr. Kamara and his crew span Monrovia, Liberia[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/liberia/index.html?inline=nyt-geo]’s capital, in a donated, old American ambulance — with California license plates still attached.

“It never stops,” said Mr. Kamara, getting another call the moment he hangs up.

The 15 or so ambulance teams bolting around the city have had many days of hard choices like this. Hundreds of new Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] cases are reported each week in Monrovia, with many more never accounted for. And over the course of the epidemic, only a small percentage of them have ever made it to a hospital.

“We see it flow through the communities; first one, then many,” Mr. Kamara said. “The map is being painted red with the virus.”

To confront the spread of Ebola, some community groups have stepped in, motivated by altruism, desperation and, in some cases, political opportunism.

In some neighborhoods, teams of volunteers fan out to track victims and educate households on staving off the virus, though their pockets are so shallow that they often do not have enough supplies, like chlorine, to thwart the epidemic’s advance.

Mr. Kamara does not work for the government. He does not even have a dispatcher to tell him where to go, or which patients to pick up. Instead, his team is financed by an opposition member of Parliament, Saah H. Joseph, who imported two used American ambulances to Monrovia this year.

Mr. Joseph claims to bankroll the operation on his meager government salary, and he deployed the ambulances even before Ebola overran this city. It was a way of shoring up Monrovia’s tattered health system — and of making a name for himself.

But many here wonder whether other political opponents of President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf are the real money behind Mr. Joseph’s ambulance squads, hoping to use them as a form of public shaming of the government.

There is little question that the city has long suffered a major ambulance shortage. And since the epidemic struck, other independent ambulance teams have sprung up, adding a few more vehicles to what is still a tiny fleet in this sprawling city of nearly 1.5 million people.

At the end of a recent 15-hour shift, Mr. Kamara took his final patient of the night, a 17-year-old girl, to an Ebola treatment center. Wrought with fever, she had stripped off her clothes in the back of the ambulance and fallen off the stretcher, lying twisted and barely conscious on the floor.

“If she does not get treatment, she will die,” Mr. Kamara said.

But as soon as they arrived, he and his team were turned away. All the beds were full. The center, meant to house 50 patients, was packed with 85.

“We could either leave her on the ground to die, or return her to die at home,” Mr. Kamara said. “There’s no hope here.

“We try our best. But we cannot do more than we can do.”

In recent days, the flow of patients, somewhat inexplicably, seems to have slowed, and beds are suddenly available in some places. Many people wonder if it is a reflection of international efforts to add treatment slots, or a sign that some clinics are seen as deathtraps from which sick relatives will never return, leaving many patients to opt for taking their chances at home instead.

But the current ebb is a rare — and not entirely trusted — respite from the typical frenzy. Most days, Mr. Kamara and his team work from sunrise to long past sunset, often sleeping in the ambulance for rest. On a slow day, he has ferried 10 to 15 new patients from their homes to Ebola treatment centers. On a busy day, the number has been between 20 and 30.

“When there are beds at the centers, we can do our work,” Mr. Kamara said. “When there aren’t, we must sit and wait,” he added, explaining that his ambulance would sometimes wait outside a hospital for hours, with a patient in the back, until a treatment slot opened up.

Mr. Kamara is no stranger to suffering. More than a decade ago, he worked as a combat medic during Liberia’s civil war.

“It is nothing compared to this,” he said. “The bullets you can get away from. Ebola is hidden within our own families.”

Last month, he received news of an uncle falling ill. He rushed to the hospital to help, only to be turned away by workers there.

“Nobody knows who is alive or who is dead in here!” Mr. Kamara shouted. “I would go treat him myself if they let me. I just want to protect my family.”

He takes many precautions at home. With his constant exposure to the virus, he sleeps in a separate house from his six children to prevent them from getting sick. In the past five months, he has seen them only a few times.

“It’s a very lonely virus,” Mr. Kamara said. “Not just for me, but for the entire country. We are all together, but all alone.”

As he returned the 17-year-old girl to her home, Mr. Kamara explained to her brother why they had brought her back.

“We didn’t want to leave her outside and alone,” he said. “We will come back to pick her up tomorrow in the morning and try again.”

Her brother calmly accepted the news. He thanked the ambulance crew for trying, and opened the door as they carried her limp body inside the house.

She died the next morning, before the ambulance team could return.

* Amid Ebola Crisis, Liberian Army Sees Its Chance at Rebranding[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/12/world/africa/amid-ebola-crisis-liberian-army-sees-its-chance-at-rebranding.html]

* W.H.O. Chief Calls Ebola Outbreak a ‘Crisis for International Peace’[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/14/world/africa/ebola-virus-outbreak.html]

Some ambulance workers in Monrovia have been infected with Ebola, while others have been attacked for not getting to patients in time. A week on the road as Liberia’s capital dips deeper into crisis. | Ben C. Solomon

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141016eaah0025t


finance
Nervousness in markets spreads globally; Asian indexes mirror drops in Europe and U.S. over economic worries
By PETER EAVIS and LANDON THOMAS JR.
1536 words
17 October 2014
International New York Times
INHT
15
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The party is over.

Waves of nervous selling buffeted stock markets in Asia on Thursday after a steep sell-off Wednesday in the United States and Europe.

At one point on Wednesday, the Dow Jones industrial average had plunged 2.8 percent, though it later swung higher to close off 1.1 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 0.8 percent.

The volatility in global markets extended into Thursday. The Nikkei 225-stock index in Japan fell as much as 2.6 percent Thursday morning and closed down 2.2 percent lower.

The Hang Seng index in Hong Kong opened down on Thursday but rose through midday, only to close down 1 percent. The Australian S.&P./ASX 200 fell about 1 percent in the morning but recovered to close up 0.2 percent.

Since their peak a month ago, United States stocks have lost more than $2 trillion in value, losses that may ripple through the wider economy.

‘‘It was a roller coaster, and I think you will have these wild price movements for a few more weeks,’’ said Peter P. Costa, a top executive at Empire Executions, a trading firm on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.

Dizzied by the turmoil, Wall Street analysts agreed on one thing: The jarring day showed that fear had finally returned to markets that had become disconcertingly complacent.

‘‘I think what is good is that it finally felt scary today,’’ James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management, said on Wednesday. ‘‘Prior to today, all the commentary was that this was a refreshing pause, but that’s not what you are going to read tomorrow.’’

The steep plunges also signaled something more serious to other analysts and investors. They fear that governments and central banks have failed to anticipate a recent weakening in the global economy and that policy makers may now struggle to prevent their economies from stalling. As a result, the faltering global recovery after the 2008 financial crisis may now be in jeopardy, particularly in Europe.

Speaking to investors on Wednesday, Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock, the $4.5 trillion asset management company, underscored the concerns that Europe could sink into recession and the European Central Bank might have limited ability to do anything about it.

‘‘Investors are questioning the E.C.B.’s efforts to stabilize the European economy,’’ Mr. Fink said.

‘‘We need a more expansionary fiscal policy from Germany,’’ he added in an interview, expressing a widespread worry that Europe’s economic powerhouse was not doing enough to stimulate growth by increasing government spending.

European stocks were particularly hard hit on Wednesday, with Italian shares diving more than 4 percent. The German and French stock markets both fell by nearly 3 percent. In late afternoon trading in Europe on Thursday, the Italian market was down 1.7 percent, Germany’s was off 0.2 percent and France’s had fallen 0.8 percent. The main index in Britain was down 0.5 percent.

As is often the case in times of stress, investors sought relative safety in government bonds, pushing their yields — which move in the opposite direction of their prices — sharply lower. The drop in the yield on the 10-year United States Treasury note, a benchmark for many interest rates, was particularly stunning in its size and speed on Wednesday morning. Its yield fell the most since March 2009, tumbling below 2 percent, before rising later in the day to 2.13 percent, from 2.2 percent late on Tuesday.

In other markets on Wednesday, the dollar was weaker against most major currencies, while crude oil regained some ground after a slide had the price flirting with $80 a barrel.

The Chicago Board Options Exchange’s index of volatility, known as the Vix and sometimes referred to as ‘‘the fear index’’ of the stock market, surged on Wednesday to its highest level since 2011.

Much of the selling in United States stocks, traders said on Wednesday, was driven by hedge funds unloading big holdings in benchmark stocks that for most of the year have had strong returns. With the end of the year approaching and markets falling rapidly, these momentum investors turned tail.

What caused the sudden rally in the stock market just before 1:30 p.m. is not clear. But it may have been fueled in part by a report from Bloomberg News saying that Janet L. Yellen, the chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, had expressed confidence about the United States economy at a closed meeting in Washington last weekend. The Fed is winding down its monetary stimulus program.

Adding to the nervousness, Walmart Stores, often a barometer of the United States economy, lowered its sales forecast for its current fiscal year. An announcement of a third case of Ebola in Dallas injected its own sinister chill and put downward pressure on airline stocks. And the early sell-off in the market came after unexpectedly anemic economic releases in the United States.

Still, a good share of the worries were focused on Europe. The growing fear is that the European Central Bank and governments in the region may have been badly caught out by recent signs of a slowdown on the Continent.

On Wednesday, for the first time in months, there was a sell-off in eurozone government bonds, led by Greece but including Italy and Portugal as well.

This has led to calls for the European Central Bank to do more. In particular, some analysts want the central bank to buy large amounts of government bonds, a stimulus measure that the Federal Reserve employed.

But in Germany, Europe’s largest economy, there is considerable resistance to that idea. The opposition is often rooted in the belief that southern European nations have not yet made their economies sufficiently competitive. As a result, according to this view, bond buying would do little to help some of the struggling European countries.

‘‘You cannot solve this problem with monetary or fiscal policy measures,’’ Hans-Werner Sinn, president of the Ifo Institute for Economic Research in Germany, said in an interview. ‘‘It is a different disease, so we need a different medicine.’’

In Asia, concerns are focused on slowing economic growth in China. Beijing in recent months has sought to address the slowdown through a number of narrowly targeted stimulus measures aimed, for example, at increasing the availability of financing for agriculture and subsidized housing. Despite the steps, the economy appears to still be cooling. China also pushed earlier this year to weaken its currency, the renminbi — a move that tends to benefit exporters.

Investors are also concerned about what policy makers in Japan can do to address the slowing economy. The rally triggered by the stimulatory measures introduced in early 2013 by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe appears largely to have fizzled in recent months, and a sales tax increase introduced in April has dragged down consumer spending. The Japanese economy shrank after the tax increase by an annualized 7.1 percent in the second quarter.

Despite the red on trading screens, some stock market analysts saw reasons to be hopeful.

The jitters, for instance, have come just as companies in the United States have been reporting their third-quarter earnings. If they report surprisingly strong profits, investors might be tempted to pile back into the market.

‘‘Everyone is hoping for the white knight to come, which is earnings,’’ said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst with Standard & Poor’s. Over 130 large companies report earnings next week, he noted.

The S.&P. 500-stock index on Wednesday was down 7.4 percent from its peak in September, leaving it up 0.76 percent this year. The last time United States stocks declined 10 percent or more from their previous peak — called a correction in Wall Street parlance — was in 2011, when Europe’s economic and financial troubles loomed large.

Some stock market analysts thought Wednesday’s action might at least be the start of a cathartic selling splurge that often marks a bottom for the market.

‘‘Before, people were willing to weather the downside, particularly when there was a buy-on-the dip mentality,’’ said Dan Suzuki, an equity strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. ‘‘But now that we’re seeing close to a 10 percent sell-off, they might be saying, ‘I am not willing to stick around.’’’

Certain traders said they made money from Wednesday’s swings. Manoj Narang, the chief executive of Tradeworx, a high-frequency trading firm, said his company had benefited from the volatility in the market. ‘‘It was one of our better days,’’ he said.

Even with the late recovery, some investors took little solace.

‘‘I’m like, really? It came all the way back? That’s stupid,’’ said Tom Shafer, a former specialist at the New York Stock Exchange, who now runs a timber company in Maine. ‘‘I’m always a half-empty guy. I’ve been waiting for two years for the sell-off.’’

International Herald Tribune

Document INHT000020141016eaah0003c


Empty Words
The Upshot
Here’s What to Say When You Don’t Know Why the Stock Market Fell
By JOSH BARRO
595 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The stock market is down sharply over the last week, and while German economic weakness and the Ebola crisis are factors, nobody is entirely sure why the sell-off is so sharp.

Whenever this happens, business journalists, market analysts and financial TV talking heads will search for explanations. And very often, they will lay the blame on “profit taking”: Prices went up, and now they are down because people are selling to unlock the profits that accrued when prices were going up.

“It’s just one of those things that people say when they have no idea why markets moved in one direction or another,” says Joe Weisenthal, the executive editor at Business Insider, my former employer. His boss, Henry Blodget, included “Stocks are down on ‘profit taking’  ” on a list[http://www.businessinsider.com/meaningless-phrases-that-sound-smart-on-cnbc-2011-6?op=1] of “16 meaningless phrases that will make you sound smart on CNBC” in 2011. (When stocks go back up, Mr. Blodget noted, you can credit “bargain hunting.”)

Specific investors do sometimes engage in profit taking: A trader might sell to realize a profit for tax reasons, or to cover a margin call on another position that is falling. But since every seller has to sell to a buyer, and since every seller has to put the sale proceeds somewhere, it’s not a meaningful way to describe broad moves in the financial markets.

But the meaninglessness of “profit taking” doesn’t stop finance journalists from saying it. A Google news search finds the scourge of profit taking has hit a wide variety of markets over the last month: American stocks[http://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2014/10/15/stock-market-panic-justified-uncertianty-opinionline/17326835/], of course, but also Treasury bonds[http://www.reuters.com/article/2014/10/09/markets-usa-bonds-idUSL2N0S423V20141009], Japanese government bonds[http://asia.nikkei.com/Markets/Tokyo-Market/JGBs-off-1-1-2-year-high-on-profit-taking]; New Zealand stocks[http://www.nbr.co.nz/article/market-close-nz-shares-fall-investor-book-profit-air-nz-xero-pacific-edge-tumble-bd-163938]; Malaysian stocks[http://www.themalaymailonline.com/money/article/kl-shares-opens-lower-on-profit-taking1]; Pakistani oil sector stocks[http://www.dailytimes.com.pk/business/15-Oct-2014/profit-taking-in-oil-scrips-drags-kse-100-down-by-39-points]; corn futures[http://af.reuters.com/article/commoditiesNews/idAFL3N0SA3WA20141015]; cattle futures[http://www.reuters.com/article/2014/10/14/markets-livestock-cme-idUSL2N0S90UK20141014]; cocoa futures[http://af.reuters.com/article/commoditiesNews/idAFL6N0S83J820141013]; and even the dollar[http://www.lse.co.uk/macroeconomicNews.asp?code=fi26g3ni&headline=FOREXDollar_rally_pauses_on_profittaking].

One place that used to be a terrible “profit taking” offender is The New York Times. In 1964, the phrase appeared in our pages nearly 500 times. Here’s how we described a movement in stock option prices that April:

Profit taking took its toll on Pacific Petroleums’ warrants following Thursday’s rise of 2 1/4 points. Yesterday, the warrants lost 1 1/2, to close at 7 3/4, on a turnover of 35,300 shares. This week the company reported discovery of a big gas well in Alberta.

Translation: Pacific Petroleums warrants (a kind of stock option issued directly by a company) fell, and we don’t know why; the only news we can identify about the company is positive. Fortunately, the phrase has been nearly expunged from recent issues of The Times; it has appeared just twice this year in articles discussing financial markets.

The reliance on the “profit taking” crutch reflects a broader problem, says Mr. Weisenthal of Business Insider: an urge by commentators to explain every movement in the financial markets, even ones whose cause is unknown.

“From time to time, there’s a clear event that causes a market move in some way or another (a Fed decision, a jobs report, etc.), but most of the time the interplay between news and market response is more subtle and layered than people think,” he wrote in an email. “So better to just say what happened rather than to dwell on why.”

The Upshot[http://www.nytimes.com/upshot/] provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and everyday life. Follow us on Facebook[https://www.facebook.com/upshot] and Twitter[http://twitter.com/UpshotNYT].

The scene on the trading floor of the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday. | Richard Drew/Associated Press

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141016eaah002uv


World; Europe
Europe Evaluates Ebola Measures as New Cases are Suspected
By AURELIEN BREEDEN and RAPHAEL MINDER
1135 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
PARIS — Several new suspected cases of Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] were reported in Europe on Thursday, amid heightened fears that measures to prevent the virus from spreading here are insufficient and that more people, especially health personnel attending to Ebola patients, are at risk of contamination.

The French and Spanish authorities would not confirm that any of the four people have tested positive for Ebola. But in each of the cases — one in France, three in Spain — a possible link to sources of contamination has been established.

All three of the Spanish patients were taken to the Carlos III hospital in Madrid, which has been serving as an Ebola treatment center since August[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/15/world/europe/spanish-nurse-ebola-health-budget-cuts.html?_r=0], when a priest was transported there from West Africa for treatment of the virus. That priest died, as did another one who had also worked in West Africa and was airlifted to Spain in late September.

On Thursday the Spanish health minister, Ana Mato, confirmed that medical personnel were treating a Nigerian passenger who had landed in the morning at Madrid’s Barajas airport on an Air France flight from Paris. She said that airport authorities had put in place an emergency plan after the aircraft’s pilots informed them that the passenger showed signs of fever.

The other passengers were evacuated and the plane was grounded in an isolated section of the airport. The ill passenger was then examined on board by a doctor, who ordered his transfer to the Carlos III hospital.

Also on Thursday, a nurse was admitted to Carlos III on suspicion that she might have Ebola, hospital officials said. The nurse had ridden in an ambulance some time after it had been used to transport María Teresa Romero Ramos to the hospital this month, they said. Ms. Romero, an auxiliary nurse, was the first person to test positive for Ebola in Europe, leading to a health emergency, as well as scrutiny of the Spanish authorities’ handling of the treatment of Ebola patients.

Ms. Romero had tended to the second priest who had been flown back from West Africa for treatment. She remains in serious condition in the Carlos III hospital, although her health has shown some signs of improvement, according to hospital officials. She is now one of 15 people quarantined in the hospital.

Fernando Simón, director of the Ebola crisis unit set up by the authorities, said at a news conference that the nurse admitted on Thursday was “a low-risk” case, and that test results were expected later in the day.

A third new case involves a priest who was part of the same religious order as the two others who died of Ebola in the Madrid hospital, according to hospital officials. He had returned to Spain from Liberia on Saturday, according to a Spanish government statement.

In France, officials would not provide any information about a possible case involving another nurse. If confirmed, it would be the first instance of Ebola infecting someone through transmission in France.

According to French news media reports, the nurse was suffering from intense fever and was transported to a military hospital near Paris on Thursday afternoon.

The hospital is one of 12 in France where the authorities have set up special units to treat Ebola cases and where a French volunteer for Doctors Without Borders[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/d/doctors_without_borders/index.html?inline=nyt-org], which has been providing front-line medical assistance in West Africa, was taken last month after being infected by the virus in Liberia. The volunteer recovered after treatment and left the hospital on Oct. 4.

It was unclear if the nurse in the latest case had worked at the Bégin military hospital and, if so, whether she was involved in treating the Doctors Without Borders volunteer.

Health Minister Marisol Touraine told the French radio station RTL on Thursday evening that she would not comment on the suspected case and that she did not want to feed anxiety.

Later on Thursday, quoting anonymous sources, the French station BFM TV reported that a first series of tests had found the nurse to be negative for Ebola, but that additional testing was necessary. The French Health Ministry would not comment on that report.

The latest episodes renewed concerns that Ebola cases may increase in Europe. European health officials meeting in Brussels on Thursday called for increased screening for people leaving West Africa but made no concrete decisions to address the health crisis beyond scheduling an Ebola workshop next month to exchange information.

Tonio Borg, the European Union[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/e/european_union/index.html?inline=nyt-org]’s health commissioner, said after the meeting that countries had all agreed on the need to improve checks at African airports, but not on whether to impose similar screening on people arriving at Europe’s own airports and ports. That, he said, would be left up to individual countries to decide.

Europe has struggled to adopt a common stand in response to Ebola, despite mounting public concern that the lethal virus could spread in Europe. Britain has announced that it will follow the United States in screening passengers upon arrival, while countries with regular flights from West Africa like Belgium have so far imposed no such measures.

Mr. Borg also indicated that the European countries had again failed to reach an agreement that would allow the establishment of a shared evacuation service for European medical workers in Africa who become infected with the Ebola virus. He said there was “increased interest” in shared European action on evacuations, but gave no indication of any concrete plan for it.

Instead, he said the European Commission, the bloc’s administrative arm, would sign an agreement with the State Department that would allow infected European doctors and nurses in Africa to make use of American evacuation planes, which are operated by a private company in Georgia called Phoenix Air[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/15/world/europe/ebola-fight-in-africa-is-hurt-by-limits-on-ways-to-get-out.html].

At the United Nations, Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said Thursday that the new trust fund for Ebola had received a small fraction of the $1 billion that the world body says is needed to tackle the outbreak, and has only $100,000 left in its account.

Speaking to reporters, Mr. Ban urged governments and private donors to to contribute to the trust fund [http://mptf.undp.org/factsheet/fund/EBO00]established in mid-September. It has received $20 million in cash, most of which it has spent.

“Our bank account has only $100,000 and this is a very serious problem,” Mr. Ban said.

The number of Ebola cases is expected to exceed 9,000 this week, with a total of 4,500 deaths, the World Health Organization said earlier in the day.

“We need urgent global response,” Mr. Ban said.

Aurelien Breeden reported from Paris, and Raphael Minder from Madrid. Andrew Higgins contributed reporting from Brussels, and Somini Sengupta contributed reporting from New York.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141016eaah003bs


N.Y. / Region
Yale Student Doesn’t Have Ebola, Officials Say
By PATRICK McGEEHAN
382 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Officials in Connecticut said on Thursday afternoon that a Yale graduate student hospitalized with “Ebola-like symptoms” had tested negative for the virus, alleviating fears that the deadly disease had reached the Northeast.

The student, who recently returned from a research trip to Liberia, had been admitted to Yale-New Haven Hospital on Wednesday with a fever. Hospital officials had said the student was in “good and stable” condition on Thursday and had improved since being admitted.

Dr. Thomas J. Balcezak, chief medical officer for the hospital, said the medical staff, in “an abundance of caution,” had been proceeding as it would with an established case of Ebola.

The extreme precautions were warranted, officials said, because the student was one of two Yale doctoral candidates who recently traveled to West Africa to study the spread of Ebola.

University officials initially said it was unlikely that the students would get the disease because the students said they had not come in contact with any Ebola patients while they were in Liberia. Ebola is spread through bodily fluids.

Earlier in the day, Yale’s president, Peter Salovey, sought to allay fears, emailing a message to students, faculty and staff.

“The doctoral students who visited Liberia are knowledgeable about public health,” Dr. Salovey wrote. “They have reported that they were not in contact with Ebola patients or caregivers in Liberia, that they carefully followed recommended travel and hygiene precautions during their stay in the country and that they have continued to do so since their return.”

The officials did not discuss the whereabouts or condition of the other student who went on the research mission.

Mayor Toni Harp of New Haven had expressed doubt that the student would have Ebola. “It’s important for people to remember that we are in flu season,” she said. “We are getting a lot of calls from people who have similar symptoms.”

Alison Leigh Cowan and Monica Disare contributed reporting.

A student, who had recently returned from a  trip to Liberia, had been admitted to Yale-New Haven Hospital on Wednesday with what officials described as “Ebola-like symptoms. The student tested negative for the virus on Thursday. | Tim Clayton for The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141016eaah002v0


Memo From Waterloo
World; Africa
Denial and Disconnect Add to Toll of Ebola in Sierra Leone
By ADAM NOSSITER
928 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
WATERLOO, Sierra Leone — At first, the chief said nobody was sick in his community. Then he said that if anybody was sick it was because of witchcraft. Then he acknowledged that health workers were removing several suspected Ebola patients every day. In fact 15 corpses had been taken in less than a week from the community, but the chief did not admit that.

Persistent denial has been harmful to the fight against the virus. It stretches from the village to the state house, and it echoes into the circles of some of the international agencies now thick on the ground in Sierra Leone and the other Ebola-afflicted nations in West Africa.

That tendency to minimize the damage being caused by the disease — the hardship and death it is inflicting — has been perceptible since the outbreak was first discovered in March. But the denial’s effect is to prolong the suffering.

There is a disconnect between what is happening on the ground, inside houses, hospital wards and the grim holding centers where children, women and men are painfully dying of Ebola, and much of the official response.

Last week, international health officials voted on a key change in strategy[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/11/world/africa/officials-admit-a-defeat-by-ebola-in-sierra-leone.html]. Recognizing that the virus had spread beyond their ability to bring all patients to treatment centers, they agreed to at least distribute painkillers, protective gloves and rehydration fluid to those suffering in their homes.

The top Sierra Leone official in charge of the Ebola response was absent for the vote. He was meeting bankers, he said afterward, and denied that the chance in policy had even been made. International officials said he left the room before the vote took place.

The distance between the needs and the response is evident in other ways as well. Burial workers drive rickety, thirdhand vans to collect bodies, some of them unable to make it up the country’s steep hills. Yet the parking lot of a leading United Nations agency in the capital, Freetown, was packed last week with idled, gleaming-new four-wheel-drive vehicles, at least 30 of them. As the officials met inside their air-conditioned offices, there was a drastic shortage of ambulances in the country.

Ebola’s victims die in abysmal conditions, often without adequate food, water or medicine, in shanties or mud-brick houses. Outside a house here, an 11-year-old boy, himself infected, dumped a bucket of water on his wailing 2-year-old brother, also sick, in an attempt to cool his raging fever. Meanwhile, at the country’s only five-star hotel, African Union officials in fine suits hold important meetings to discuss the Ebola response. The rubber boots necessary to go into the infected areas are nowhere in evidence, but armed bodyguards are.

The burial workers, who handle highly infectious corpses but had not been paid their weekly $100 salary by the government, threatened to go on strike last week. An adviser to the health official responsible complained that she did not know “why they are so impatient.”

The angry burial workers milling about could have told her, had she cared to speak to them. They pointed out that they were the ones exposed to the dangers of fighting the disease.

“The work is very risk,” said Sahr Kohmba.

Then there is the stigmatization they are subjected to: “I don’t have family now; my family has all abandoned me,” said Mamadou Jallow, another burial worker. “We want to buy something to eat. They won’t sell to us.”

The delay in wages was hard for many of them to understand, given the aid flowing into the country. One government official said Sierra Leone had received more than $40 million[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/06/world/africa/sierra-leone-ebola-medical-supplies-delayed-docks.html] in cash to fight Ebola.

One of the most contentious examples of the disconnect in Sierra Leone is the death statistics [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/23/world/africa/23ebola.html]reported[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/23/world/africa/23ebola.html] by the government. Nobody except the health ministry here thinks that they bear much relation to reality. But if the number of victims is sharply undercounted, how can the response be adequate?

Some days, no Ebola deaths are reported for the whole country. On other days, five or so are registered. And then, suddenly, there will be 100 or so deaths reported.

Meanwhile, a visit to a single holding center can easily turn up a half-dozen or more deaths in one night[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/02/world/africa/ebola-spreading-in-west-africa.html]. These places are simply death traps for many Ebola patients unable to find a scarce hospital bed. At the main cemetery in Freetown, the capital, the burial-workers’ daily haul runs to 15 or more.

“We know they are undercounting,” said one leading international health official in Freetown. “We don’t know by what factor,” he said. Yet the World Health Organization continues to rely on the government’s statistics.

A former top official, Sylvia Olayinka Blyden, who left the government two weeks ago, was more blunt in a recent online post, calling the health ministry’s statistics “dishonest, deceitful” and “shameful.” The ministry “continues to make a FOOL of the Government with ridiculous numbers being announced[http://news.sl/drwebsite/publish/printer_200526321.shtml],” wrote Ms. Blyden, until recently one of President Ernest Bai Koroma’s top advisers.

Last week in Freetown, a body lay on the street in the Aberdeen neighborhood, covered in a sheet. The residents, angry that it had not been taken away, barricaded the street and threatened a riot.

But eventually the body was collected. The burial teams had gone back to work, even without being paid.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141016eaah003ea


Health
In Cities With West African Populations, Hospitals and Residents Gear Up for Ebola
By PAM BELLUCK
996 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Hospitals in cities with large West African populations are bracing for the first patients with Ebola, a prospect that no longer seems so far-fetched, ramping up screening, protections for hospital staff, and efforts to encourage people to report symptoms and take precautions.

At the same time, leaders of West African communities have been telling people how to stay safe and have been seeking assurances that doctors and nurses will not refuse to treat them if Ebola arrives.

On Thursday, the recently formed Minnesota African Task Force Against Ebola met with the state Health Department and representatives from the Department of Justice to discuss how to handle potential Ebola cases and to address community concerns that health care providers will refuse to treat those patients.

“Doctors will be afraid of being exposed, nurses will panic,” said Abdullah Kiatamba, chairman of the task force. “People are worried, ‘What if I go to the clinic and they don’t treat me because I’m a West African?’ ”

“Relations between the medical community and the West African community actually needed to be improved in the first place, and a case of Ebola will worsen that,” he added. “It will reverse a lot of progress that has been made.”

Urgency has grown since news that two nurses were infected with Ebola in Texas and that federal guidelines may have been too lax.

Now, Rhode Island Hospital, the biggest medical center in a state with a West African community of about 20,000 people, plans immediately to isolate and test anyone with any Ebola symptoms, even without a fever[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/symptoms/fever/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier], if the person has traveled anywhere outside the country in recent weeks.

“Even Canada,” said Dr. Leonard Mermel, medical director of the hospital’s department of epidemiology and infection control. “We’ll whisk away more people than we need to.”

In the Minneapolis area, home to the largest Liberian community outside Liberia, Hennepin County Medical Center is doing four-hour drills with fake patients and “focusing on everything, including ‘No, that’s not a big enough wastebasket,’ ” said Dr. John Hick, the medical director for emergency preparedness.

Hospitals that serve many of Philadelphia’s 15,000 or so West Africans are so far not going much beyond the guidelines issued by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a hospital official said.

But Rhode Island Hospital has, even planning to have an employee observe all staff activity in the isolation rooms, peering through a window and giving guidance via intercom to ensure that procedures like inserting intravenous tubes are conducted without infecting employees.

New York City, with West African communities in the Bronx, Staten Island and Harlem, designated Bellevue[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/15/nyregion/bellevue-hospital-center-to-treat-new-york-citys-ebola-patients.html?_r=0] as the place where 11 public hospitals would send Ebola patients, but other regions are not necessarily following suit.

In Rhode Island, Dr. Michael Fine, the state Health Department director, said that “there are pluses and minuses” to having a designated Ebola hospital. “You have the expertise, but on the other hand, you’ve got the risk” of employees getting infected while transferring patients, he said.

In Minneapolis, Dr. Hick said he hoped the five or six largest and best-equipped of the area’s 30 hospitals would act as Ebola treatment sites.

Kristen R. Ehresmann, director of infectious disease epidemiology, prevention and control for Minnesota’s Health Department, said a dry run of sorts occurred in April, when a hospital successfully treated and contained a case of Lassa fever, which is somewhat similar to Ebola.

Many hospitals in these communities are debating how and whether to add protective gear.

In Philadelphia, Dr. Neil Fishman, associate chief medical officer at the University of Pennsylvania Health system, said so far masks, gowns and double layers of gloves seemed sufficient. Additional layers and extras like duct tape can increase infection risk, he said, because they are harder to take off.

Officials at Montefiore Medical Center, in the Bronx, are wondering whether to have the emergency room triage nurse stand behind a protective shield, even though that nurse would not need to touch patients.

Rhode Island Hospital has replaced standard gowns for employees working with patients in isolation with extra-long surgical gowns because the regular gowns left “a little bit of a gap” on the legs, Dr. Mermel said.

He prescribed shoe covers and knee-high or thigh-high leg coverings, long-sleeved gloves over short gloves, and respirator face masks.

And after Ebola hit Texas, Dr. Mermel ordered full body suits, hoping to train employees to use those by next week. “That’s the plan as of today,” he said. “That could change tomorrow.”

Leaders of West African communities are trying to keep their members safe and prepared.

Worried about both infection and stigma, Mr. Kiatamba and the Minneapolis task force have been using even stronger language than the Health Department in pressing community members not to go to Africa to help.

“We’ve been to churches, to mosques, and we tell people: ‘Look, traveling there is not helpful. Guess what, if you go to Africa and you come back, you could be part of the problem, not part of the solution,’ ” Mr. Kiatamba said.

In New York, there is also concern about being denied care, especially among those who are not legal immigrants and lack health insurance[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/health/diseasesconditionsandhealthtopics/health_insurance_and_managed_care/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier], said Dr. Aletha Maybank, associate commissioner of the Center for Health Equity, who is organizing town hall forums on Ebola to start on Friday.

The city is also distributing posters and palm cards in French, Arabic, Spanish and English, with the legend, “Am I at Risk?” followed by the warning signs of Ebola.

Anemona Hartocollis contributed reporting from New York, and Jon Hurdle from Philadelphia.

* As Ebola Fears Spread, Ohio and Texas Close Some Schools[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/us/amber-joy-vinson-flight-causes-concern.html]

* Lax U.S. Guidelines on Ebola Led to Poor Hospital Training, Experts Say[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/us/lax-us-guidelines-on-ebola-led-to-poor-hospital-training-experts-say.html]

* Bellevue Hospital to Be a Focus if Ebola Hits New York[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/15/nyregion/bellevue-hospital-center-to-treat-new-york-citys-ebola-patients.html]

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141016eaah003mt


World; Africa
New U.N. Ebola Trust Fund Falls Far Short of Goal
By SOMINI SENGUPTA
252 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
UNITED NATIONS — The United Nations trust fund for Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] barely has $100,000 in cash, a fraction of the nearly $1 billion that the world body says it needs to help tackle the outbreak, United Nations officials said Thursday.

The trust fund has received pledges of about $20 million from various governments, but only $100,000 in actual cash deposits — and that only from one country, ​ Colombia.

Donors have separately given money and noncash contributions to specific United Nations programs, worth about $3​76 million. But the trust fund itself, which the United Nations regards as a flexible cash resource that could be tapped as needed to support efforts to contain Ebola, remains woefully underfunded. ​

Ban Ki-moon[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/b/ban_ki_moon/index.html?inline=nyt-per], the secretary general, had earlier told reporters that the trust fund, announced in mid-September, had received $20 million in cash. His aides later clarified that the $20 million amount referred to pledges, not cash.

The number of Ebola cases is expected to exceed 9,000 this week, with a total of 4,500 deaths, the World Health Organization said earlier in the day

“We need urgent global response,” Mr. Ban said.

The United Nations is separately rallying countries to contribute cash and in-kind contributions, from helicopters to protective gear, for the three most heavily affected countries in West Africa: Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.

* How to Help in Efforts to Stem Ebola’s Tide[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/03/health/how-to-help-in-efforts-to-stem-ebolas-tide.html]

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141016eaah002ut


U.S.
Obama Says He May Name Ebola Overseer
By MICHAEL D. SHEAR
177 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
WASHINGTON — President Obama[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/o/barack_obama/index.html?inline=nyt-per] said Thursday evening that he might appoint an “Ebola czar” to manage the government’s response to the deadly virus, a concession to critics who have questioned whether his administration has stayed on top of the medical crisis.

In extended remarks after meeting with several of his top aides working on the Ebola issue, Mr. Obama praised their work but said they were also responsible for other initiatives, including national security matters and other health care concerns.

“It may be appropriate for me to appoint an additional person, not because they haven’t been doing an outstanding job, really working hard on this issue, but they are also responsible for a whole bunch of other stuff,” Mr. Obama told reporters.

He added that an Ebola czar would make sense “just to make sure that we are crossing all the ‘t’s’ and dotting all the ‘i’s’ going forward.” He declined to say when he might make such an appointment.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141017eaah0002w


Op-Ed Columnist
Opinion
The Case for Low Ideals
By DAVID BROOKS
833 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Let’s say you came of political age during Barack Obama’s 2008 campaign. Maybe you were swept up in the idealism. But now you’ve seen an election driven by hope give way to an election driven by fear. Partisans are afraid the other side might win. Candidates are pawns of the consultants because they’re afraid of themselves. Everybody’s afraid of the Ebola virus, ISIS and the fragile economy.

The politics of the last few years have made you disappointed, disillusioned and cynical. You look back at your earlier idealism as cotton candy.

Well, I’m here to make the case for political idealism.

I’m not making the case for the high idealism that surrounded that 2008 campaign. It was based on the idea that people are basically innocent and differences can be quickly transcended. It was based on the idea that society is easily malleable and it’s possible to have quick transformational change. It was based in the idea of a heroic savior (remember those “Hope” posters).

I’m here to make the case for low idealism. The low idealist rejects the politics of innocence. The low idealist recoils from any movement that promises “new beginnings,” tries to offer transcendent “bliss to be alive” moments or tries to fill people’s spiritual voids.

Low idealism begins with a sturdy and accurate view of human nature. We’re all a bit self-centered, self-interested and inclined to think we are nobler than we are. Montaigne wrote, “If others examined themselves attentively, as I do, they would find themselves, as I do, full of inanity and nonsense. Get rid of it I cannot without getting rid of myself.”

Low idealism continues with a realistic view of politics. Politics is slow drilling through hard boards. It is a series of messy compromises. The core functions of government are negative — putting out fires, arresting criminals, settling disputes — and much of what government does is the unromantic work of preventing bad situations from getting worse.

Politicians operate in a recalcitrant medium with incomplete information, bad options and no sleep. Government in good times is merely dull; when it is enthralling, times are usually bad.

So low idealism starts with a tone of sympathy. Anybody who works in this realm deserves compassion and gentle regard. The low idealist knows that rallies with anthems and roaring are just make-believe, but has warm affection for any politician who exhibits neighborliness, courtesy and the ability to listen. The low idealist understands that those who try to rise above the messy business of deal-making often turn into zealots and wind up sinking below it. On the other hand, this kind of idealist has a full heart for those who serve the practical work of legislating: James Baker and Ted Kennedy in the old days; Bob Corker and Ron Wyden today. Believing experience is the best mode of education, he favors the competent old hand to the naïve outsider.

The low idealist is more romantic about the past than about the future. Though governing is hard, there are some miracles of human creation that have been handed down to us. These include, first and foremost, the American Constitution, but also the institutions that function pretty well, like the Congressional Budget Office and the Federal Reserve. Her first job is to work with existing materials, magnify what’s best and incrementally reform what is worst.

The businessman might be enamored of disruptive change, but the low idealist abhors it in politics. The low idealist liked Obama’s vow to hit foreign policy singles and doubles day by day, so long as there is a large vision to give long-term direction.

The low idealist admires a different kind of leader; not the martyr or the passionate crusader or the righteous populist. He likes the resilient one, who maybe has been tainted by scandals and has learned from his self-inflicted wounds that his own worst enemy is himself.

He likes the person who speaks only after paying minute attention to the way things really are, and whose proposals are grounded in the low stability of the truth.

The low idealist lives most of her life at a deeper dimension than the realm of the political. She believes, as Samuel Johnson put it, that “The happiness of society depends on virtue” — not primarily material conditions. But, and this is what makes her an idealist, she believes that better laws can nurture virtue. Statecraft is soulcraft. Good tax policies can arouse energy and enterprise. Good social programs can encourage compassion and community service.

Low idealism starts with a warts-and-all mentality, but holds that people can be improved by their political relationships, so it ends up with something loftier and more inspiring that those faux idealists who think human beings are not a problem and politics is a mostly a matter of moving money around.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141017eaah0005o


U.S.
Congress Scrutinizes Handling of Ebola Cases in Texas
By SABRINA TAVERNISE
997 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Correction Appended

WASHINGTON — Facing sharp questioning at a Congressional hearing on Thursday about the troubled handling of Ebola cases in the United States, federal health officials said that a nurse with Ebola would be transferred to a specialized unit at the National Institutes of Health in Maryland, to ease the burden of the Dallas hospital where she became infected.

Health officials said that the hospital, Texas Health Presbyterian, is strained in its efforts to monitor dozens of other health care workers who may have been exposed to the virus, and that the nurse, Nina Pham, was being transferred at the hospital’s request.

“They are now dealing with at least 50 health care workers who may potentially have been exposed,” Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/c/centers_for_disease_control_and_prevention/index.html?inline=nyt-org], told members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “That makes it quite challenging to operate, and we felt it would be more prudent to focus on caring for any patients who come in with symptoms.”

The hearing thrust the deadly virus and the government’s halting management of it into the realm of politics in the midst of a national election season.

“Errors in judgment have been made,” said Tim Murphy, a Republican from Pennsylvania. “We have been told, ‘Virtually any hospital in the country that can do isolation can do isolation for Ebola.’ The events in Dallas have proven otherwise.”

Ms. Pham was part of the medical team that cared for Thomas Eric Duncan, a Liberian who died of Ebola last week[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/09/us/ebola-us-thomas-eric-duncan.html]. She is to be moved to the N.I.H. facility in Bethesda, Md., on Thursday evening, where she will take one of the unit’s two beds. She is in stable condition. A second nurse infected at Texas Presbyterian was moved on Wednesday to Emory University Hospital in Atlanta, which has successfully treated two American Ebola patients[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/22/us/two-us-ebola-patients-are-released-by-atlanta-hospital.html].

Both nurses worked in the hospital’s intensive care unit, and Dr. Frieden said that investigators’ “leading hypothesis” was that the women became infected in the first few days of caring for Mr. Duncan, when, according to hospital officials, they were wearing basic protective gear but had not yet upgraded to full biohazard suits.

Dr. Daniel Varga, the chief clinical officer for Texas Health Resources, the medical group that oversees Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital, said during the hearing that since the patient was having diarrhea when he was admitted, “shoe covers were added shortly thereafter,” implying that caretakers had not been wearing them at first.

“Do you know how long it took to put those shoe covers on?” asked Diana DeGette, Democrat of Colorado.

“I don’t,” said Dr. Varga, who was speaking by video link.

She asked whether there had been real training on the job for health workers.

“No,” Dr. Varga said.

Another sharp line of questioning dealt with why the second nurse, Amber Joy Vinson, was allowed to fly from Cleveland to Dallas on Oct. 13 even after she called the C.D.C. from the airport and told them she had a slight fever. It was not known yet that she had contracted the virus.

“Were you part of those conversations?” Mr. Murphy asked Dr. Frieden.

“No, I was not,” Dr. Frieden responded.

“I have not seen the transcript of that conversation,” he added. “My understanding is that she reported no symptoms to us.”

Ebola is one of the world’s most lethal diseases, but is contagious only through contact with bodily fluids, and health officials say it is highly unlikely that passengers on Ms. Vinson’s flight were at risk.

Over all, the three-hour hearing was relatively cordial.

“I respect you,” Mr. Murphy said to Dr. Frieden, during an exchange about a ban on travel from affected countries, which Republican lawmakers continued to press for.

Fred Upton, a Republican from Michigan, said he wanted to know why federal authorities could not simply look at incoming people’s travel histories “and say, no, you’re not coming here.”

Dr. Frieden countered that people would continue to travel to the United States, but it would be harder to track them. He also pointed out that American citizens made up a significant share of those arriving from the affected countries.

But lawmakers did not give up.

“There’s no restrictions for travel on humans, but what about dogs[http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/10/15/ask-well-can-pets-get-ebola/]?” said Morgan Griffith, Republican of Virginia. “Don’t you think we should at least restrict the travel of dogs?”

In his opening statement, Dr. Varga apologized for what he said were mistakes made by the Dallas hospital in the original diagnosis of Ebola.

“Unfortunately, in our initial treatment of Mr. Duncan, despite our best intentions and a highly skilled medical team, we made mistakes,” he said in remarks prepared for the hearing.

“We did not correctly diagnose his symptoms as those of Ebola. And we are deeply sorry.”

Correction: October 16, 2014, Thursday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misidentified the flight taken by Amber Joy Vinson after she called the C.D.C. and said she had a slight fever, as well as the date of the flight. It was from Cleveland to Dallas on Oct. 13, not from Dallas to Cleveland on Oct. 8.

* Ebola-Infected Health Worker in Dallas Took a Flight on Monday[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/us/ebola-infected-dallas-health-worker-was-on-flight.html]

* Obama Cancels More Travel to Oversee Ebola Response, Urging ‘Aggressive’ Action[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/us/obama-cancels-campaign-trip-to-meet-with-cabinet-on-ebola.html]

* With New Ebola Case Confirmed, U.S. Vows Vigilance[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/us/ebola-outbreak-texas.html]

Dr. Daniel Varga, the chief clinical officer for Texas Health Resources, the medical group that oversees Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital, spoke at a news conference in Dallas on Wednesday. | Stewart F. House/Getty Images | Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said he worries that the spread of Ebola in Africa could pose a long-term threat to America’s health care system.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141016eaah002bg


news
Series of failures to contain virus put harsh spotlight on Texas hospital
By KEVIN SACK
1002 words
17 October 2014
International New York Times
INHT
7
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Some nurses donned layer after layer of protective garb but unknowingly raised their risk of exposure to the Ebola virus when taking the gear off. Some wore gowns that left their necks uncovered and haphazardly applied surgical tape to the bare spots. And it was two days after the Ebola victim Thomas Eric Duncan was admitted before personnel began wearing biohazard suits.

For Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital, the past two and a half weeks have been a nightmare without end. And with the announcement early Wednesday that a second nurse who cared for Mr. Duncan had been infected, scrutiny of the hospital intensified as officials sought to calm both workers and patients.

Long regarded as one of the finest hospitals in Texas, Presbyterian has faced continuing criticism — first for its initial misdiagnosis of Mr. Duncan, which delayed his care and placed others at risk; then for issuing contradictory statements about why its doctors did not suspect Ebola; and now for failures in safety protocol that led to the infections of two of its own. If the hospital has served as a canary in a coal mine for the country’s Ebola response, the results have not inspired confidence.

Thomas R. Frieden, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, who has received his own measure of criticism for the C.D.C.’s response, seemed to acknowledge as much on Wednesday when he described some of the hospital’s lapses. He also announced that the second nurse would be flown to Emory University Hospital in Atlanta, which has successfully treated two American Ebola patients in one of the country’s four special biocontainment units.

The C.D.C. flooded Presbyterian this week with teams of infection-control experts and crisis managers. ‘‘We’re working very closely with the hospital in Dallas to promote a safe environment for the care of everyone at that hospital, for the patients and for the workers,’’ Dr. Frieden said.

Until three weeks ago, few questioned Presbyterian’s status. With nearly 900 beds and 1,000 doctors, it is the eighth-largest hospital in Texas and has excelled in delivering both cardiac care and babies: more than 5,000 births a year. Regular evaluations by Medicare and the Joint Commission, which accredits hospitals, have largely been sterling.

Things may get worse before they get better at the enormous complex. Health care officials have started to express concern that the hospital’s staff, particularly its nurses, may stay away from their jobs, and the company has already had to recruit nurses and volunteers from other hospitals to meet heightened staffing demands. On Wednesday morning, the hospital’s gleaming hallways and teak-paneled waiting rooms were eerily quiet.

‘‘It has always been considered the Neiman Marcus of hospitals, because a lot of wealthy people came here,’’ Suzanne Worthing said while waiting, virtually alone, for her husband to have an ultrasound. ‘‘Now we wonder if it’s going to become the J.C. Penney.’’

Ms. Worthing said that one of her children had been delivered at Presbyterian, and that she and other family members saw doctors there regularly. But she acknowledged that she and her husband had thought twice about keeping Wednesday’s appointment.

‘‘We thought about not having it done,’’ she said. ‘‘It’s the Ebola epicenter.’’

There has been no comprehensive investigation to date of the hospital’s missteps, and health officials remain uncertain about precisely how the two young nurses, Nina Pham, 26, and Amber Joy Vinson, 29, were exposed. But the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and the Texas Department of State Health Services are evaluating the hospital’s performance.

Daniel Varga, the chief clinical officer at Texas Health Resources, which oversees the hospital, said in an interview on Wednesday that workers had not started wearing full biohazard suits until two days after Mr. Duncan was admitted, when tests confirmed that he had Ebola. He said that until then, the hospital had been following C.D.C. protocols to wear masks, gloves, gowns and shields.

Hospital officials have generally kept their remarks to a minimum, issuing brief statements and appearing at only a few of the nearly daily news conferences. Some of their statements have included inaccurate dates for Mr. Duncan’s treatment. After first saying the hospital had failed to diagnose his Ebola infection on Sept. 25 because a doctor had not seen electronic medical records prepared by a nurse, officials later said that had not been the case.

Speaking at the news conference where Ms. Vinson’s infection was announced, Dr. Varga acknowledged that the hospital had made mistakes. ‘‘We’re a hospital that may have done things different with the benefit of what we know today,’’ he said. ‘‘But make no mistake: No one wants to get this right more than our hospital, the first to diagnose and treat this insidious disease.’’

In a subsequent interview, Dr. Varga explained how the hospital believed Mr. Duncan, who died last week, had been misdiagnosed. He said a nurse had not asked Mr. Duncan about his travel history, a crucial element of Ebola screening, until two hours after he arrived in the emergency room.

The nurse noted, he said, that Mr. Duncan had come from West Africa, but did not communicate that to the doctor who reinterviewed Mr. Duncan 10 minutes later. The doctor somehow came away with different information, that Mr. Duncan was a local resident. Dr. Varga said he did not know how that had happened.

‘‘We didn’t correctly diagnose Mr. Duncan’s initial symptoms, and we’re sorry about that,’’ he said. ‘‘It wasn’t the outcome we were hoping for.’’

Dr. Varga denied that the infection of a second nurse suggested that the hospital had a systemic problem.

‘‘Let’s be clear,’’ he said. ‘‘We’re a hospital that serves this community incredibly well, and we have for nearly half a century.’’

International Herald Tribune

Document INHT000020141016eaah0002y


news
Hands-on care in a stifling Ebola ward; Volunteer health workers in Africa treat symptoms and offer simple comforts
By SHERI FINK
1351 words
17 October 2014
International New York Times
INHT
1
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The first time Dr. Steven Hatch suited up in protective gear at an Ebola treatment center, he was confronted with the weight of his decision to volunteer here. A patient, sweating and heavily soiled, had collapsed in a corridor. ‘‘Literally every surface of his body was covered in billions of particles of Ebola,’’ he recalled.

The physician introducing him to the routine, Dr. Pranav Shetty, said they needed to get the man back to bed, so they picked him up. Dr. Shetty focused on calming the patient, who would not live through the night. He diluted a Valium tablet in water, and cut some intravenous tubing into a crude straw for him to sip.

‘‘It was a beautiful moment because I was like, he’s a doctor, he was taking care of his patients,’’ said Dr. Hatch, an American volunteer. ‘‘That’s what we do here.’’

In his first two weeks in Liberia at a new clinic run by the charity International Medical Corps, Dr. Hatch has learned the ways of the Ebola ward.

Much of West Africa is following a no-hands rule to avoid contagion from the deadly virus, but doctors and nurses here, protected by layers of plastic and rubber armor, routinely touch the sick. Without a drug that can cure the disease, they offer patients fluids and medications to treat symptoms, but also the simplest of comforts, like feeding them or cleaning them up. They follow their instincts — Dr. Hatch turned out to be right that an elderly man suffered from a chronic illness, not Ebola, as a lab test mix-up showed — but try to restrain their impulses, because old habits might not be safe.

Dr. Hatch’s journey to this remote center in a tropical forest began last month at a pilot training course run by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention at a former Army base in Anniston, Ala. An infectious disease specialist in Worcester, Mass., Dr. Hatch, 45, joined about two dozen other medical workers heading to West Africa.

Outside a battered warehouse with peeling walls that served as a mock Ebola treatment unit at the base, mannequins were sprawled on the ground. Dr. Hatch and Bridget Anne Mulrooney, an American nurse who was volunteering with the same charity, spent nearly 20 minutes putting on gear — two to three pairs of gloves, aprons, head coverings, goggles, masks and chemical protection suits that were hot and crinkled when they walked. Dr. Hatch had trouble tying a knot with the double gloves. ‘‘I was never good at surgery,’’ he confessed.

As Ms. Mulrooney, Dr. Hatch and two others lifted the first mannequin onto a stretcher, an instructor watched. She warned Dr. Hatch that the edge of his mask had come out from under his goggles, leaving part of his face exposed.

‘‘We put him down and we go straight out,’’ Dr. Hatch told the team, his voice muffled by the mask. ‘‘Second time in two days I’ve breached here. Is it because I’m 6-foot-2?’’

Last year, in the Liberian capital, Monrovia, Dr. Hatch had helped teach medical residents with one of the country’s top physicians, Dr. Abraham Borbor. ‘‘We laughed for two weeks,’’ Dr. Hatch said. ‘‘I just loved him.’’

Dr. Borbor died from Ebola in August, which spurred Dr. Hatch to join the effort his friend had begun. He signed on for a four-week rotation with International Medical Corps, a Los Angeles-based relief group that was starting its first Ebola treatment unit, with funding from the United States Agency for International Development.

Ms. Mulrooney, 36, was already on the charity’s emergency roster — she had volunteered in other crises and had worked four years in Haiti. After the Ebola epidemic erupted, she put off a plan to move in with her boyfriend near London. ‘‘I feel like I have something to offer,’’ she said.

Ms. Mulrooney’s first days at the treatment center were a gut punch. ‘‘This morning I carried a baby to the tent morgue,’’ she wrote in a Facebook message. The infant had appeared to be doing well. ‘‘It was a shock and a testament to how rapidly situations can change.’’

She cared for a 13-year-old girl whose intravenous site would not stop bleeding. ‘‘I cleaned her up, and put her in a pair of still-tagged jeans,’’ Ms. Mulrooney wrote. ‘‘She half smiled and took some medicines I asked her to. I won’t forget her smile. Nor her soft moans as her body was fading away.’’ The nurse added, ‘‘I’m sorry for being graphic.’’

Dr. Hatch came about a week later. He noticed Ms. Mulrooney had lost weight. ‘‘She’s a different Bridget,’’ he observed.

At high noon the day after his arrival, he was struggling. Inside his protective equipment, after only 30 minutes on the ward, his mask was wet. ‘‘It feels constantly like being pushed down, like suffocating,’’ he said. His goggles were steaming up. He was sweating so much — the temperatures often reached more than 90 degrees outside and even more inside the ward — that he felt like he was swimming inside his suit.

He gave water to patients and cleaned them over the course of nearly two hours. ‘‘Longer than I should have been in,’’ he said after his gear was sprayed down in bleach solution and then carefully removed. He was breathing hard.

In the unit, where about 20 international medical volunteers work alongside 175 Liberian nurses, physician’s assistants, aides and others in three shifts, the workers look out for one another. Monitors observe every time someone suits up to make sure steps are followed properly. (The center uses protocols established by Doctors Without Borders, which has extensive experience with Ebola.) Dr. Colin Bucks, an emergency physician from Stanford University, urged his colleagues to limit visits to the wards to an hour at a time; if someone passed out, safe removal of their garb would be nearly impossible. He switched his shifts to overlap with Dr. Hatch.

Ms. Mulrooney serves as a motivator. ‘‘Welcome to afternoon!’’ she said one day, doing a little dance for a nurse who had come in on her day off. Dr. Hatch amused his Liberian colleagues by learning to sing one of their devotionals. A Liberian physician assistant, A. Welehyou Duo, rescued him from a botched blood draw; like many American doctors, Dr. Hatch had rarely done that task since medical training.

‘‘It’s teamwork,’’ said Mr. Duo, who previously supervised a primary health center. Love Fassama, 30, a nurse assistant, said she felt compelled to help her fellow Liberians. ‘‘I can’t have these skills and sit at home,’’ she said.

Dr. Hatch, married with 13-year-old twins, says he is at peace with his decision to treat Ebola patients. ‘‘I just don’t worry about my life,’’ he said. ‘‘When you’re scared, you get jumpy. When you get jumpy, you make bad decisions.’’

Last Friday, he carried a malnourished 9-year-old girl, Blessing Gea, into the unit for those confirmed to have the disease. The next night, Ms. Mulrooney, clad in full protective gear, tended to the lonely little girl. She let her lean against her as she squeezed a packet of peanut butter-based supplement into the child’s mouth. She changed her clothing, put new sheets on her bed and wrapped her in a fuzzy blanket for the chilly night, stroking her head. Three days later, a blood test showed the girl had recovered from Ebola.

Dr. Hatch visited a new patient, a pastor who was gravely ill by the time he was admitted last week, yet insisted on praying for the American doctor. ‘‘To see a guy lying in bed that’s got a 50-50 chance of living or dying pray for you?’’ Dr. Hatch said, shaking his head. The next day, just before the pastor died, he prayed for Dr. Hatch again.

International Herald Tribune

Document INHT000020141017eaah0002y


World; Africa
Pursuing a Calling That Leads to West Africa
By STEVEN HATCH
954 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Dr. Steven Hatch, an infectious disease specialist in Worcester, Mass., is volunteering at a new Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] clinic in Suakoko, Liberia[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/liberia/index.html?inline=nyt-geo], run by the American charity International Medical Corps. Before going, he wrote this essay about his decision to travel there and administer care.

Why I Go

In nearly every medical school applicant interview, candidates are asked why they want to pursue medicine as a career. Invariably, the answer takes some form of a simple idea: I want to help other people. It is almost impossible to make this answer sound new or genuine or creative, and yet, for the most applicants it is an honest response.

I’ve been thinking about this of late because I’m now being asked a similar kind of question from colleagues and friends. You see, I am going to be headed to Liberia shortly to participate in the efforts to control the Ebola outbreak, and — in addition to being asked whether or not I am insane — people want to know why I would willingly seek out such an assignment.

It is a legitimate question. Although I think many Americans have magnified the danger that a person like me faces heading into the current chaos of West Africa, it is nonetheless a risky thing to do, and there is the real possibility that something terrible will befall me while I am deployed. Becoming infected with Ebola is only one of a laundry list of hazards I will face.

So why do such a rash thing?

For starters, I am an infectious disease physician. Many of those who join the ranks of infectious disease do so out of a passion for epidemics, and the awareness of the impact of human behavior and development on disease. In particular, many infectious disease doctors are driven toward international health, and in particular settings where resources are most limited. Even before Ebola came, West Africa was a place where infections were the leading cause of mortality. Global health groups often refer to the “big three” diseases that constitute the major causes of suffering: H.I.V., malaria and tuberculosis. But that is only the beginning in West Africa. There is yellow fever, pneumococcal disease, meningitis, rickettsial infection, streptococcus and a host of other maladies that can shorten lives and bring general misery to a place.

Trying to provide long-term solutions to such places is why I became passionate about infectious disease. I read Laurie Garrett’s book “The Coming Plague: Newly Emerging Diseases in a World Out of Balance” (an exhaustive and thoroughly well-researched account of the many infections that threaten our lives) prior to medical school almost 20 years ago, and it changed my life. I agreed with her premise that the rapid technological changes to our world may create a host of unintended consequences, that viruses and bacteria will be only too happy to exploit for their own purposes.

As someone who chose this particular profession for the reasons why I did, how could I not want to help out? Why do the police put their lives on the line on a daily basis? To preserve order. Why do firefighters run headlong to the fire? To put it out, of course. Ebola is not really different, and it is my fire; along with many other colleagues, I go to put it out. The vast majority of people who pursue these callings do not make the ultimate sacrifice, but they are willing to do so because they believe in something higher than their own lives.

I go also for more personal reasons. Last year, I traveled to Monrovia to help kick-start a residency program for the Liberian Ministry of Health. My host was the chief of internal medicine at John F. Kennedy Hospital, a man named Abraham Borbor. I liked him from the moment I met him. He was kind and intelligent and compassionate, and clearly had inspired fierce loyalty among his staff. But what drew me most to him was his sense of humor. After living through a bloody civil war and seeing death on a daily basis, he still was able to be amused at the world around him. He could joke about the fickleness of American and Liberian politicians as much as he found the idea of pouring some warm Coke into his glass of warm beer a source of great amusement — “Well, going the same place anyway,” he observed. He had a rich cackling laugh that had the effect of making you laugh along with him, a contagion of a different sort than what has befallen West Africa of late.

Now, because of Ebola, the world will not hear that laugh again.

Especially with Dr. Borbor gone, I go to honor the commitment that he made to his profession and to the next generation. He took me into his world and placed a small part of Liberia in me; how could I not go after the disease felled him?

We live in a cynical age, where a term like brotherhood can only be uttered sardonically, tossed out as part of a joke making fun of Victorian idealism. But Dr. Borbor became — at least in some meaningful although small way — my brother when I went over there. I go because I owe him something. I go because I do believe in the idea of brotherhood. I go because if I do not, after where I have been and the people I have met, that concept would mean very little. I would very much prefer to return whole, but if I do not, it will be because I could not see any other way forward.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141017eaah000b8


Editorial
Opinion
Keeping Ebola at Bay
By THE EDITORIAL BOARD
845 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The Ebola cases in the United States show that American hospitals and public health officials have much to learn about effective ways to protect health care workers and the public from possible infection.

Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital, the first hospital put to the test, failed to protect two nurses, who had cared for the Ebola victim Thomas Eric Duncan, from becoming infected. Perhaps more alarming are the stumbles[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/us/ebola-dallas-texas-presbyterian-hospital-apology.html] by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the lead federal agency for fighting infectious diseases.

One of the nurses, who was monitoring her own temperature, called the C.D.C. and was allowed to take a commercial flight from Cleveland to Dallas-Fort Worth even though she had a slight fever, which did not violate current guidelines. That was an incredible lapse in judgment by the C.D.C.

Health officials and the flight’s airline are now scrambling to notify passengers, crew members and janitors who cleaned the planes she traveled on of possible exposure. While the danger to those people appears slight, this incident shows that the C.D.C. needs to lower the fever threshold in its guidance and advise against any travel on public forms of transportation for 21 days by people who have potentially been exposed to the virus.

There is more the agency ought to do. It should be increasing the rigor of its guidelines on protective clothing for health care workers, hospital readiness, and training on the handling of Ebola cases. President Obama said on Thursday evening that he is considering appointing an “Ebola czar” to manage the government’s response.

The C.D.C.’s inadequate advice to hospitals on how to protect health care workers may have contributed to the latest cases. An expert who oversaw the treatment of two American missionaries flown from West Africa to Atlanta for treatment at Emory University Hospital told The Times that he had warned the C.D.C. repeatedly that its guidelines were irresponsibly lax. The guidelines allowed protective garments that left the neck and other areas exposed. It was not until Tuesday night[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/us/lax-us-guidelines-on-ebola-led-to-poor-hospital-training-experts-say.html] that the agency — essentially acknowledging its error — issued new, stricter guidelines requiring full-body suits covering the head and neck, as well as close supervision of the risky process of taking off protective gear.

Unless the C.D.C. can help hospitals prepare properly, every new case will result in improvised responses that may not work. The hospital in Dallas has sent one of the nurses to Emory and the other to the National Institutes of Health, two of the nation’s four specially designated high-containment hospitals. But there are only a limited number of beds in these institutions (N.I.H. has only two such beds), so other major medical centers must be ready to accept cases if necessary. Some hospitals in cities with large West African populations are taking steps to train their staffs.[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/health/in-cities-with-west-african-populations-hospitals-and-residents-gear-up-for-ebola.html]

While the chance that an infected patient will show up at any particular hospital or clinic is very small, health workers should still know the basics of what to do if a patient arrives at their door. The National Nurses United, the country’s largest union of nurses, says there has been almost no hands-on training, just easy-to-ignore guidance documents.

The advice now from the C.D.C. is for emergency room staff to take travel histories, isolate patients who have fevers and have been in West Africa, and call the C.D.C. if Ebola is suspected. Once a case is diagnosed as Ebola, the C.D.C. will fly in a swat team of experts within hours to oversee treatment.

At a congressional hearing on Thursday, House members asked whether the United States is adequately protected against people who might have been infected in West Africa but do not yet have symptoms. The current system relies on screening before they are allowed to fly out of West Africa and again when they reach airports in this country. So far, only one infected patient — the man who was treated in Dallas and later died — escaped detection at the airports since the epidemic was first identified seven months ago. There should be some comfort in knowing that that part of the system is working.

Even so, some members of Congress, mostly Republicans, have called for barring entry to all people who have been in the Ebola-stricken countries as a way to keep the virus out.

The danger is that if other nations followed an American ban with bans of their own, economies in West Africa would be crippled. That could only reduce the ability of those nations to fight the epidemic, and make it even more likely the disease would spread through porous borders to other African nations and beyond.

Meet The New York Times’s Editorial Board »

A clinician participated in an Ebola training session given by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention earlier this month in Anniston, Ala. | Brynn Anderson/Associated Press

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141017eaah000dx


U.S.
Controls Poor at Hospital, Nurse Says
By KEVIN SACK
746 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
DALLAS — A nurse who observed and participated in the care of Ebola patients at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital spoke out publicly on Thursday about what she characterized as inadequate training and infection control there.

The nurse, Briana Aguirre, 30, who has worked at the hospital for three years, said in an interview that when Thomas Eric Duncan arrived at the emergency room on Sept. 28, it took at least three hours to place him in isolation, despite suspicions that he had contracted the deadly virus. Mr. Duncan had visited the emergency room three days earlier with a fever[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/symptoms/fever/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] and other symptoms, as well as a history of recent travel from West Africa, but was sent home with antibiotics[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/health/diseasesconditionsandhealthtopics/antibiotics/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] after being misdiagnosed.

Ms. Aguirre described a confused and chaotic scene when he returned. “A lot of questions unanswered, staff not knowing exactly what to do, mishandling things,” she said.

The doctor handling the case, whom Ms. Aguirre would not name, waited hours to call the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for guidance, she said.

“I know he spent a multitude of hours in an area where anyone could be walking up and down the hall,” Ms. Aguirre said of Mr. Duncan. “He was in a room with a closed door, but the same staff that was caring for him was caring for other people at that time and it stayed that way anywhere from three to five hours.”

She said that up to seven patients may have been in the emergency room with Mr. Duncan. Eventually, she said, the other patients were removed from the area and the emergency room became Mr. Duncan’s isolation unit for two days.

Ms. Aguirre, who lauded the general quality of care at the hospital, said she had come forward because she had lost confidence in her employer and feared that fellow nurses and other staff had been put at risk. She is one of several nurses who anonymously released a statement on Tuesday night that made similar claims.

“I’m not alone in my feeling that someone needs to know what has been happening inside those doors,” she said.

The hospital declined to specifically address Mr. Aguirre’s assertions, but issued a statement that defended its infection-control practices by saying it had followed C.D.C. guidelines in effect at the time.

Ms. Aguirre also helped care for her fellow nurse, Nina Pham, for several days after Ms. Pham contracted the virus while treating Mr. Duncan. Ms. Aguirre is one of more than 70 health care workers being monitored because they helped treat Ebola patients. She said she has been instructed to take her temperature twice a day and that she receives a daily call asking if she has symptoms.

Ms. Aguirre said she and other nurses were “horrified” at the protocols used to care for Ms. Pham. She said they received instruction only once about the proper use of personal protective equipment — gloves, masks, gowns, hoods and shields — before entering Ms. Pham’s room, and then were shown how to remove the potentially contaminated gear while in the room. The garb left a triangle of skin exposed on the front of her neck.

“The very first time I was being instructed to put the stuff on I immediately voiced my concerns,” Ms. Aguirre said. “Why would I be wearing two pairs of gloves, three pairs of bootees, have my entire body covered in plastic, have two hoods on and have an area so close to my mouth and my nose exposed? And they said, ‘We know, we’ve addressed it and basically our verdict on that at this time is we’re taping that area closed.’ ”

She said the hospital had offered a single, voluntary session on treating Ebola patients a month or two before Mr. Duncan’s arrival. “There were some fliers stuck up in our break room saying they were having a seminar to discuss some facts about Ebola,” Ms. Aguirre said. “I didn’t go. I had a friend who said it was good information, very interesting, but it was not hands-on. It was just a lecture.”

* Obama May Name ‘Czar’ to Oversee Ebola Response[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/us/amber-joy-vinson-flight-causes-concern.html]

* In Cities With West African Populations, Hospitals Take Extra Steps[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/health/in-cities-with-west-african-populations-hospitals-and-residents-gear-up-for-ebola.html]

Briana Aguirre, a nurse at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas, spoke of inadequate protocols for dealing with Ebola. | Cooper Neill for The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141017eaah000dz


U.S.
Out on the Front Lines, Risks and Duty Collide
By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL
1073 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
In the early years of the AIDS[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/aids/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] epidemic, there was widespread assurance that health care workers were at little risk, that one could get H.I.V. only from unprotected sex, intravenous drug use or transfusions. “There is presently no evidence of AIDS transmission to hospital personnel from contact with affected patients or clinical specimens,” the Centers for Disease Control[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/c/centers_for_disease_control_and_prevention/index.html?inline=nyt-org] wrote at the end of 1982.

Although the agency advised taking precautions to avoid direct contact with blood and secretion, a number of health care workers continued to perform tasks like drawing blood without even wearing gloves. Dr. Molly Cooke, professor of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco, who was chief resident in medicine at San Francisco General Hospital in 1981, remembers going to dinner with tubes of blood in the pocket of her white coat. Five years later, with transmission routes clearer and procedures codified, such actions were unthinkable.

It has long been the peculiar burden of health care workers to weigh the risk of infection against the duty to treat and the professional pull of helping a sick patient. That calculation is different for every person, and often uncertain as the dangers of new infectious agents become known.

Ebola is, of course, different from H.I.V. It is more easily transmitted from a sick patient and kills quickly, weeks after infection; AIDS takes years before its victims show serious symptoms. More important, perhaps, thanks to pressure from gay activists and intense scientific research, there are now drugs that effectively treat H.I.V. Though Ebola was discovered earlier, in 1976, there has been limited research funding because the disease has emerged only infrequently and then largely in remote African communities.

Still, the treatment of novel infectious diseases[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/specialtopic/travelers-guide-to-avoiding-infectious-diseases/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] inevitably raises similar fears and ethical quandaries for health workers as experience teaches about routes of transmission and adequate protection. Those at risk include physicians, but even more so the nurses and aides who are often on the front lines of exposure, since they spend long periods at the bedside.

It is no wonder, then, that nurses’ unions have been vocal in raising concerns and led the charge for better protection. “If an Ebola patient came to my unit right now, I wouldn’t know how to take care of the patient, how to protect myself, or how to protect the other patients,” said Talisa Hardin, an intensive care unit nurse at the University of Chicago Medical Center. “The hospital has told us they have the right equipment, but I don’t know where it is, and I haven’t been trained to use it.”

In 10 years as a nurse, Ms. Hardin, a leader of the hospital’s nurses’ union, has seen other epidemic scares, “but this is different, this one is worse,” she said. “This has definitely become the main conversation topic. We are very concerned, and we want hands-on training.”

Dr. Cooke says that conversation is familiar. “I remember those early days when you would hear rumors — like ‘there was a hospital worker in France who was sick’ — you’d get tremendously anxious, and you’d have to talk yourself down,” she said. There were surgeons and phlebotomists who would not take care of people with AIDS, she recalled, a refusal that the hospital ultimately found unacceptable.

She added: “It brings up the question of what is the moral responsibility of the health care worker.” She pointed out that before antibiotics[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/health/diseasesconditionsandhealthtopics/antibiotics/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] and other effective treatments, health care workers knew they were vulnerable to dreaded diseases like Black Death and tuberculosis, and accepted that risk. “We’d forgotten about that,” she said.

Over time, the risks posed to health care workers by the virus that causes AIDS became more apparent: By 1987, there were cases documented of health care workers acquiring it after accidental needle sticks. Right around that time, as a newly minted medical resident, I remember drawing an arterial blood sample[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/test/arterial-stick/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] to check the oxygen level on a patient who was being treating with intravenous antibiotics for AIDS-related pneumonia[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/pneumonia/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier]. I wore gloves, as was already standard at my hospital. But afterward, I tapped the side of the syringe and pressed the plunger gently to expel a tiny air bubble that I worried would have thrown off the reading. A tiny spray of blood droplets flew skyward landing on my face. A risk, or not?

As American hospitals have gained more experience with Ebola, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has strengthened safety guidelines for health care workers. But for the moment, we do not understand exactly how the two nurses at Texas Health Presbyterian were infected in the course of treating an extremely sick patient. Nurses there have said that equipment provided by the hospital was inadequate for such a serious virus, and that prior training in dealing with Ebola patients was nonexistent or minimal.

While every hospital has a preparedness plan for disasters and infectious disease, putting that into practice is a more complicated matter. Dr. Cooke said hospitals had to take more responsibility to ensure workers’ safety. “Learning to use new equipment and following new practices in the middle of a crisis is hard to do,” she said.

Tom Skinner, a spokesman for the C.D.C., said, “One thing I think we can’t emphasize enough is the need for health care workers to practice, practice and practice some more putting on and taking off their personal protection equipment, and for hospitals to make sure they develop and practice, as well, their Ebola response plans now.”

Meanwhile, Dr. Cooke said she has tremendous admiration for the doctors in West Africa: “It’s been inspiring to hear African health care workers saying ‘I’m a doctor, these are my people. There’s no choice.’ It’s a fundamental reminder of what it means to be an M.D.”

Elisabeth Rosenthal, a reporter at The New York Times, is a physician. Richard Pérez-Peña contributed reporting.

* Controls Poor in Dallas, Nurse Says[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/us/controls-poor-at-hospital-nurse-says.html]

* In Cities With West African Populations, Hospitals Take Extra Steps[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/health/in-cities-with-west-african-populations-hospitals-and-residents-gear-up-for-ebola.html]

* Obama May Name ‘Czar’ to Oversee Ebola Response[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/us/amber-joy-vinson-flight-causes-concern.html]

A demonstration by AIDS activists at City Hall in New York in 1985. As they were with H.I.V., health care workers treating Ebola are forced to learn a lot in a short time. | Rick Maiman/Associated Press

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141017eaah000gq


U.S.
White House Takes Drop-Everything Approach to Respond to Public Health Crisis
By MICHAEL D. SHEAR
1228 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
WASHINGTON — President Obama[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/o/barack_obama/index.html?inline=nyt-per] remained at the White House on Thursday to focus on the government’s response to Ebola, canceling a second day of election-season travel as the administration concentrated on what is already turning into a political as well as a public health crisis.

Aides said there was no sudden shift in the president’s thinking and described his new, more aggressive public posture on Ebola as the natural response to a “dynamic situation.” After bowing out of an economic speech in Rhode Island and fund-raisers in New York City, Mr. Obama phoned lawmakers and huddled privately with his homeland security advisers.

After a nearly two-hour meeting in the Oval Office, Mr. Obama offered extended remarks on the Ebola situation, promising that the government would be closely monitoring anyone who might be at risk of the disease and suggesting that he is considering appointing an official to oversee the crisis.

Mr. Obama said that he had been in touch with Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, where one of the infected nurses traveled by plane. Mr. Obama also participated in a conference call with workers from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention stationed in Atlanta, Dallas and West Africa.

“I continue to push and ask our experts whether we are doing what’s adequate,” Mr. Obama told reporters. “If they come back to me and say there are some additional things we can do, I assure you we will do it.”

The president again pledged to lead a global effort to confront the spread of Ebola in West Africa, and he once again chided his counterparts in other nations for being too slow to offer help, saying ,“it’s taking a little longer than it should.”

But his efforts to ring the alarm bells in the United States and across the world were tempered with reassurances. Mr. Obama said he understands that people are scared, but he urged everyone to “keep perspective” in the days ahead.

“The risks involved remain relatively low, extremely low for ordinary folks,” Mr. Obama said. “I want to assure the American people we are taking this seriously, but this is something that’s really hard to catch.”

The decision to upend Mr. Obama’s schedule suggested a balancing act for the president’s team, which does not want to undermine the public’s trust in the country’s health care system, but also needs to avoid seeming unconcerned by the spread of the disease or disconnected from the public’s fears about it.

The drop-everything approach is a striking change for a White House that prides itself on always maintaining its cool. And it is a far cry from the reassuring, low-key message on Ebola that the president and his senior advisers offered after the arrival in Dallas of Thomas Eric Duncan[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/09/us/ebola-us-thomas-eric-duncan.html], the first person to receive an Ebola diagnosis in the United States, and during most of the past two weeks.

On Capitol Hill, the government’s response came under congressional scrutiny for the first time, as federal health officials, including Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the director of the C.D.C., faced sharp questioning about their handling of Ebola cases in the United States. Representative Tim Murphy, Republican of Pennsylvania, who led the hearing of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, opened with scathing criticism.

“Mistakes have been made,” Mr. Murphy said. “Trust and credibility of the administration and government are waning. That trust must be restored.”

Lawmakers, including Speaker John A. Boehner[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/b/john_a_boehner/index.html?inline=nyt-per], renewed their calls on Thursday for a travel ban on people flying from affected countries in West Africa, a move that administration officials again rejected as counterproductive. Representative Fred Upton, Republican of Michigan, questioned how the second nurse who became infected, Amber Joy Vinson, was able to board a commercial flight even after she reported having a fever[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/symptoms/fever/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier].

“On this issue, there is no time to wait,” Mr. Upton told Dr. Frieden during the hearing. “People are scared. We need all hands on deck. We need a strategy.”

At the White House, Josh Earnest, the press secretary, also acknowledged what he called shortcomings in the government’s response. But he argued that the president and health officials should be judged by how quickly they moved to correct them.

“That is why you have seen that this administration, in response to some of the shortcomings that have been identified, ramp up our response to make sure that we are closing those gaps,” Mr. Earnest said.

Aides said Mr. Obama called Mr. Boehner, Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, and Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader, to discuss the government’s response to Ebola. The president also signed an executive order giving the Defense Department the authority to call up a small number of National Guard or Reserve troops who have skills that could help in preventing the spread of the virus in West Africa.

In the past, White House officials have pushed forward with the president’s routine regardless of what else is going on. Aides have said the White House is unwilling to let events swirling around Mr. Obama dictate his activity.

“It is rarely a good idea to return to the White House just for show, when the situation can be handled responsibly from the road,” Jennifer Palmieri, the White House communications director, said this summer after Mr. Obama refused to cut short a trip when a Malaysian airliner was shot down in Ukraine. “Abrupt changes to his schedule can have the unintended consequence of unduly alarming the American people or creating a false sense of crisis.”

In the current Ebola case, aides came to a different conclusion.

“There’s new information coming in about questions that he has,” one official said. “What’s a better use of his time?”

The deepening sense of crisis at the White House this week had a familiar feel, recalling the pressure to respond to the Deep Horizon oil spill[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/01/us/01gulf.html] in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010 and the sometimes panicked scramble to fix a failing health care website[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/10/13/us/politics/from-the-start-signs-of-trouble-at-health-portal.html] in 2013.

For most of the last several weeks, the strategy had been clear: Keep calm and carry on. Mr. Obama and his top health officials repeatedly expressed confidence in medical professionals even as the president continued other business: meetings on the air war in Iraq and Syria, political fund-raisers, an economic speech and a round of golf.

But that course changed after health officials in Dallas alerted White House aides at 4 a.m. Wednesday that a second nurse in the hospital there had tested positive for the Ebola virus, officials said. Within hours, Mr. Obama’s top aides were huddled together in the West Wing to game out a new presidential response.

* Obama May Name ‘Czar’ to Oversee Ebola Response[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/us/obama-may-name-ebola-czar-after-amber-joy-vinson-flight-causes-concern.html]

* The Partisan Divide on Ebola Preparedness[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/upshot/the-partisan-divide-on-ebola-preparedness.html]

* In Cities With West African Populations, Hospitals Take Extra Steps[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/health/in-cities-with-west-african-populations-hospitals-and-residents-gear-up-for-ebola.html]

* Controls Poor in Dallas, Nurse Says[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/us/controls-poor-at-hospital-nurse-says.html]

* Out on the Front Lines, Risks and Duty Collide[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/us/out-on-the-front-lines-risks-and-duty-collide.html]

President Obama met Thursday with Sylvia Matthews Burwell, the secretary of health and human services, and Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, to discuss the Ebola outbreak. | Doug Mills/The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141017eaah000gv


Foreign Desk; SECT
W.H.O. to Focus on Containing Ebola in Africa
By NICK CUMMING-BRUCE
558 words
17 October 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
The New York Times on the Web
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
GENEVA -- The World Health Organization said Thursday that it was planning to ''ramp up'' efforts to prevent the Ebola virus from spreading outside the three West African counties where it is now concentrated but that it was not recommending screening for travelers arriving at airports.

Six months into the Ebola outbreak, the W.H.O. is focusing on 15 African countries with communications and trade links with Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, the three countries at the heart of the epidemic, Isabelle Nuttall, the organization's director overseeing global alert and response capacity, told a news briefing in Geneva.

''Our data shows cases are doubling every four weeks,'' Ms. Nuttall said, reporting the latest W.H.O. assessment that the number of people killed by the disease will pass 4,500 this week and the number of people infected with it will rise to over 9,000 this week.

It was clear that the situation in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone is still deteriorating, the W.H.O. said in its latest update released on Wednesday, describing transmission as ''rampant'' in Sierra Leone and reporting a spike in cases in Guinea's capital, Conakry, as well as new cases of infection in districts bordering Ivory Coast.

As mounting alarm in the United States prompted some lawmakers to urge a ban on travel with the three worst-hit countries, Ms. Nuttall said countries needed to realize that even screening arrivals at airports did not give 100 percent security and could create a false sense of security.

Screening arrivals will catch only those people who are displaying symptoms of the disease and would not have caught the infection carried by the Liberian man who brought the virus to the United States, she said, pointing out that ''things can happen'' after people pass through screening and enter the country.

The W.H.O. understood why some countries had taken this measure but was not recommending it for now, Ms. Nuttall said. Rather, it was recommending exit screening in the three most affected countries.

''The problem of Ebola is in three countries in Africa: this is where we need to concentrate all our efforts,'' Ms. Nuttal said.

To try to keep the epidemic from spreading outside the three worst-hit countries, the organization was concentrating its effort to ''ramp up'' preparedness on four countries that have land borders with them, Ms. Nuttall said.

''As the number of cases rises, it wouldn't be a surprise to have cases in the neighboring countries,'' Ms. Nuttall said.

The W.H.O. will dispatch teams of experts to two of them, Ivory Coast and Mali, in the next few days to run simulation exercises testing their readiness for dealing with any case of infection, she added.

The teams will test the neighbors' readiness to set up rapid response teams that can deploy quickly to identify any reported infection, take samples and trace people who had contact with any suspected infection.

They will also advise on infection prevention and control, engage with local communities to raise public awareness of what to do if they encounter people infected with the disease, and ensure laboratories are in place or that health authorities know where and how to send samples for diagnosis.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141017eaah0008b


First Draft
Gas Prices Plunge, but the Candidates Don’t Seem to Care
JONATHAN WEISMAN
281 words
17 October 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
Three weeks before the midterm elections, voters are hearing about Ebola, jobs, threats in the Middle East and “invaders” at the border. What they are not hearing about are gas prices, which are plunging.

If prices at the pump were rising, the political clamor would be deafening, yet falling prices have barely produced a peep.

For nearly three straight weeks, the price of gasoline has been dropping daily, and at an average of $3.16 on Thursday, a gallon of regular unleaded was at the lowest level since the fall of 2010. That year, low prices reflected weak demand in a faltering economy, and that offered no silver lining to Democrats ahead of the Tea Party landslide. This time around, the driving force isn’t weak demand but supply — which is a-gushin’.

Hydraulic fracturing — or fracking — has turned the United States from an energy consumer to an exporter, transforming its economy and flooding a global market.

For President Obama, the silence is most likely maddening. After all, he told an audience this month in Evanston, Ill., that two years ago he pledged to cut oil imports in half by 2020, a goal the country actually met this year.

But Democrats, wary of a left flank that is not enamored with the fracking revolution, have not exactly been claiming credit.

Republicans, insistent that the Obama administration has held said revolution back, have let the trend go unmentioned.

Meantime, we at the gas pump can play the game “How Low Can You Go.” Some analysts say oil prices will slide another $10 a barrel.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141017eaah00105


First Draft
Today in Politics
THE NEW YORK TIMES
1353 words
17 October 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
White House Weighs Moves on Immigration

Good Friday morning from Washington, where President Obama is mulling the appointment of an Ebola “czar” and the son of Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. is apologizing after a failed drug test. Meanwhile, Michael R. Bloomberg is taking his anti-soda crusade to the West Coast, and Democrats are getting little credit for one positive trend: plunging gas prices[http://www.nytimes.com/politics/first-draft/2014/10/17/?entry=2678&_php=true&_type=blogs].

Bracing for a grim election on Nov. 4, the White House is grappling with what should come afterward — and how quickly to move to overhaul the nation’s immigration system.

After initially promising action before the end of the summer, President Obama last month delayed any announcement until after the elections on Nov. 4. The White House has said the president will take executive action “before the end of the year.” Significant changes are expected that could affect millions of immigrants living in the country illegally.

One camp inside the West Wing is arguing for a quick announcement right after the elections. That could help change the subject from what aides fear will be big losses in the House and Senate. They also worry that further delay will allow any immigration action to become mired in legislative negotiations over budget and other issues during a contentious lame-duck session in December.

Other aides want to wait until Senate control is firmly determined, even if that means postponing an announcement until January after possible runoffs in Georgia and Louisiana. They argue that early action could doom Democrats’ immigration hopes.

Exhibit A for that argument: Senator Mary L. Landrieu, the Democratic incumbent in Louisiana, said this week that she was flatly opposed to Mr. Obama taking action on his own. “I support congressional action,” she told reporters.

The pressure to wait could fade if control of the Senate is decided on Nov. 4, but the debate continues as White House officials try to map out just the right moment for what could be a highly divisive announcement.

– Michael D. Shear

Bloomberg’s War on Soda Has New Theater: Berkeley, Calif.

It has been something of a mismatch in Berkeley, Calif., where a campaign is on to persuade voters to impose a 1-cent-per-ounce tax on sugary drinks.

The beverage industry, which has successfully blocked just about every attempt to impose any kind of soda tax across the country, has already dropped $1.4 million to defeat the initiative in Berkeley — just shy of $12 per resident. Opponents have raised $135,000.

Now, Michael R. Bloomberg is riding to the rescue. Aides said that he has decided to spend money in Berkeley – they did not say how much – to help counter the beverage industry, most likely paying for mailings and get-out-the-vote efforts.

“We want to come in and try to equalize the spending disparity – which is enormous,” said Howard Wolfson, a senior adviser to Mr. Bloomberg.

As New York’s mayor, Mr. Bloomberg tried to ban the sale of supersized soft drinks and to persuade the State Legislature to impose a soda tax. The industry defeated him on both counts.

In reliably liberal Berkeley, the industry sees an opportunity to kill the soda tax idea for good – though acknowledges it could be a tough fight given the community’s political history.

Interestingly, Mr. Bloomberg is staying out of a similar battle across the bay in San Francisco. By every account, that is a much tougher battle for the soda opponents.

Because of how that ballot measure was written, it requires a two-thirds vote for approval, compared with a simple majority in Berkeley. And Mr. Bloomberg has never been known as a man to invest in what he sees as a losing cause.

– Adam Nagourney

Clinton Shows His Love to a State That Saved Him

Few political surrogates are as grateful to the states they visit as Bill Clinton was in New Hampshire on Thursday night.

“No family in American public life owes more to the people of New Hampshire than Hillary and I do,” he told about 1,200 cheering Democrats at the Jefferson-Jackson Day dinner in Manchester.

New Hampshire primary voters rescued Mr. Clinton’s faltering presidential bid in 1992, and the state breathed life back into Hillary Rodham Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign after a lackluster showing in the Iowa caucuses.

This trip, Mr. Clinton was stumping for Senator Jeanne Shaheen, who is fighting off a challenge from Scott P. Brown. New Hampshire has the nation’s first and only all-female congressional delegation[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/02/us/politics/from-congress-to-halls-of-state-in-new-hampshire-women-rule.html?module=Search&mabReward=relbias%3Ar%2C%7B%221%22%3A%22RI%3A6%22%7D], and its governor is also a woman. “I’m quite comfortable being here just campaigning for women and taking orders,” Mr. Clinton told the crowd. “It’s just like being at home.”

He joked that the family achieved “gender parity” when his daughter, Chelsea, married, but lost it last month with the birth of her baby girl.

Mr. Clinton acknowledged that his campaign speech extolling Democratic values was not a new one. “I feel like an old racehorse in a stable,” he said at one point. “People put me on the track and slap me on the rear to see if I can run around one more time.”

– Katharine Q. Seelye

What We’re Watching Today

President Obama will remain at the White House, where he will offer remarks on consumer financial security safeguards and convene the National Security Council to discuss the status of Operation Inherent Resolve, the campaign against the Islamic State.

Michelle Obama heads to Florida to campaign for former Gov. Charlie Crist, who is again running for governor.

Representative Paul D. Ryanwill be in Kansas[http://www.robertsforsenate.com/index.cfm/press-releases?ID=51dd00ec-83cb-47af-9636-756cad57afa2] to offer support to Senator Pat Roberts in his re-election bid.

Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin faces off with challenger Mary Burke in a governor’s debate at 8 p.m.[http://www.c-span.org/video/?322065-1/wisconsin-governors-debate]

In Georgia, the Latest Political Football Is Actually Football

In Georgia, it was only a matter of time before college football became an issue in the governor’s race.

On Thursday, Gov. Nathan Deal and his Democratic rival, Jason Carter, engaged in a Twitter war over who was the bigger fan of the University of Georgia’s star tailback Todd Gurley, who has been suspended over accusations that he took money to autograph sports memorabilia.

Mr. Carter, who earned his law degree at Georgia, started it with a Twitter photograph of himself with three raised fingers – in honor of Mr. Gurley’s jersey number – and the hashtag #FreeGurley.

Less than two hours later, Mr. Deal struck back with his own tweet: a picture of the governor with Mr. Gurley and other Georgia players.

“I’ve always supported Gurley,” Mr. Deal said, “not just during election season.”

Mr. Deal earned undergraduate and law degrees from Mercer University in Macon, Ga., and is one of the few governors in recent times who did not pick up any degrees from the state’s largest university.

The previous governor who was not a Georgia Bulldog? Mr. Carter’s grandfather, Jimmy Carter, who graduated from the United States Naval Academy.

– Alan Blinder

What We’re Reading Elsewhere

More than 900,000 people have already voted[http://washington.cbslocal.com/2014/10/16/ap-nearly-1-million-americans-have-cast-ballots-already-for-midterm-elections/] in the midterm elections, with 600,000 of those votes cast in Florida, according to The Associated Press.

The Financial Times documents the rise of Google[http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/6b637b56-53da-11e4-80db-00144feab7de.html#axzz3GN2rlD6a] as a powerhouse among political donors.

Politico reports that President Obama is under pressure[http://www.politico.com/story/2014/10/barack-obama-tom-perez-latinos-attorney-general-111955.html?hp=t1_3] from Hispanics, labor groups and immigration advocates to name Labor Secretary Thomas E. Perez as attorney general.

Salon says Senator Ted Cruz of Texas has replaced Rick Santorum as the Republican Party’s “anti-gay rock star.”[http://www.salon.com/2014/10/16/move_over_rick_santorum_ted_cruz_is_the_gops_new_anti_gay_rock_star/]

The Daily Beast sums up the strange turn in the Oregon governor’s race[http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2014/10/14/the-crazy-oregon-governor-race-just-got-crazier.html], where the incumbent’s fiancée has admitted that she once entered into a sham marriage for money.

John Dickerson in Slate says the debate spat between Gov. Rick Scott of Florida and former Gov. Charlie Crist had its roots in Richard M. Nixon’s sweat-soaked performance[http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/politics/2014/10/rick_scott_charlie_crist_and_a_fan_campaigns_have_fought_over_the_rules.html] against John F. Kennedy in 1960.

Like this? Get First Draft delivered to your inbox[http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics/]

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141017eaah001e1


First Draft
Flight Bans, Sure, but How?
JONATHAN WEISMAN
233 words
17 October 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
The clamor to ban flights from the African Ebola zone to the United States is rising sharply, but fire up Expedia, Travelocity, Kayak or whatever website you want and just try to find those flights from Freetown, Sierra Leone; Monrovia, Liberia; or Conakry, Guinea.

They don’t exist, and there’s the rub.

Banning visas, O.K. Screening passengers for fever, sure. But a flight ban would involve stopping flights not from West Africa, but from London, Amsterdam or other European cities. Thomas Eric Duncan, a Liberian and the only person to die of Ebola on American soil, flew here via Brussels. Little wonder that Nicholas E. Calio, the head of the airlines lobby and a former George W. Bush White House aide, said passenger screenings coordinated between airports in West Africa, Europe and the United States should do the trick.

“Because of these coordinated efforts, we believe discussions of flight bans are not necessary and actually impede efforts to stop the disease in its tracks in West Africa,” Mr. Calio wrote for Airlines for America, the airline industry group.

It’s a complicated matter, but in a charged political season, don’t think logistics will impede the clamor for a travel ban from West Africa. Just don’t expect to hear much about flight changes in Belgium or at Heathrow.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141017eaah00232


First Draft
Obama Names Ron Klain Ebola ‘Czar’
FIRST DRAFT
92 words
17 October 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
President Obama has tapped a well-known Washington “Mr. Fix-it” to corral the Ebola crisis.

A day after signaling that it would be helpful to have a point person managing containment of the virus, Mr. Obama selected Ron Klain, a former chief of staff for Vice Presidents Al Gore and Joseph R. Biden Jr., for the job.

See the full story from The Times here:

Ron Klain, Chief of Staff to 2 Vice Presidents, Is Named Ebola ‘Czar’[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/18/us/ron-klain-chief-of-staff-to-2-vice-presidents-is-named-ebola-czar.html]

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141017eaah00234


U.S.
Your Friday Briefing
By ADEEL HASSAN and VICTORIA SHANNON
1022 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Good morning.

Here’s what you need to know:

• Ebola worries grow.

President Obama today appointed Ron Klain[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/18/us/ron-klain-chief-of-staff-to-2-vice-presidents-is-named-ebola-czar.html], a former vice-presidential chief of staff, as “Ebola czar” to coordinate U.S. efforts to combat the deadly virus.

The U.N. secretary-general says that[http://www.bbc.com/news/world-africa-29654982] a $1 billion trust fund he started last month has received only $100,000.

And an employee of a Dallas hospital who may have had contact with specimens of the virus is aboard a cruise ship, the State Department said today[http://mobile.nytimes.com/2014/10/18/us/ebola-cruise-ship-dallas.html].

• Face to face.

The presidents of Ukraine and Russia discussed[http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-29653393] the crisis in eastern Ukraine on the sidelines of the Asia-Europe summit meeting[http://mobile.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/world/europe/bloc-in-europe-starts-to-balk-over-austerity-.html] in Milan.

The leaders of Britain, France, Germany and Italy, also there, pressed Russia to do more to end the fighting, which has killed more than 3,500 people since April.

• At the courts.

The judge today adjourned until Tuesday the sentencing hearing for the South African track star Oscar Pistorius[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/18/world/africa/oscar-pistorius-sentencing-hearing-day-five.html] in the killing of his girlfriend.

In the U.S., a Florida man was sentenced[http://jacksonville.com/news/crime/2014-10-16/story/jordan-davis-parents-asked-prosecutors-not-seek-death-penalty-dunn-trial] today to life in prison for fatally shooting a teenager at a gas station in a 2012 dispute over loud music.

• Storm watch.

Bermuda is bracing for a direct hit today[http://mobile.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/world/americas/bermuda-prepares-for-hurricane.html] from Hurricane Gonzalo, a Category 4 storm with winds of 145 miles per hour.

And a storm in the Pacific that is predicted to grow to a hurricane is moving[http://mobile.nytimes.com/aponline/2014/10/17/us/ap-us-tropical-weather-hawaii.html] toward Hawaii and may hit the state today.

• Surprise raid in Hong Kong.

Hundreds of police officers removed[http://mobile.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/world/asia/hong-kong-leader-open-to-talks-with-protesters.html] many of the barricades erected by pro-democracy protesters before dawn today.

The city’s leader is expected to hold talks with the protest leaders next week.

• The militant threat.

President Obama meets with his National Security Council this afternoon, and Gen. Lloyd Austin, the Central Command commander, holds a news conference, his first since the airstrikes against the Islamic State[http://mobile.nytimes.com/aponline/2014/10/17/us/politics/ap-us-strategic-kobani.html] began.

A Kurdish commander in the strategic Syrian town of Kobani told the BBC[http://www.bbc.com/news/world-middle-east-29647314] that the extremists have been nearly driven out. But they appeared to be gaining[http://mobile.nytimes.com/aponline/2014/10/17/world/middleeast/ap-ml-iraq.html] in Iraq.

• Pop concert deaths.

At least 14 concertgoers died at an outdoor site in South Korea today when a ventilation grill they were standing on collapsed, the police said[http://abcnews.go.com/Entertainment/wireStory/14-feared-dead-accident-south-korean-concert-26265558].

• Genocide trial opens.

A U.N.-backed tribunal began hearing the case[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/18/world/asia/khmer-rouge-leaders-genocide-trial.html] against the leaders of Cambodia’s brutal 1970s Khmer Rouge regime in their second trial today.

About 1.7 million people died from starvation, disease and execution under their rule.

MARKETS

• Wall Street stocks are up sharply. European indexes[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/european-stocks-rebound-after-sell-off/] gained nearly 3 percent, while Asian shares ended mixed.

• Janet L. Yellen, Federal Reserve chairwoman, said in a Boston speech today that chances for Americans to advance economically[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/18/business/yellen-warns-of-inequality-threat.html] are shrinking.

She did not address the market’s recent volatility or the interest rate outlook.

• Apple’s new iPhones went on sale today in China[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2014-10-17/apple-looks-for-big-screen-boost-as-iphone-6-hits-china.html] and India.

• Shares of Jimmy Choo, the British luxury footwear maker, rose on their first day of public trading in London today[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/jimmy-choo-prices-i-p-o-despite-turbulent-market/].

• A bankruptcy judge is to rule today on whether the Trump Taj Mahal casino in Atlantic City[http://in.reuters.com/article/2014/10/14/usa-new-jersey-trump-ent-idINL2N0S91I220141014] can shed its labor pact in order to seal a $100 million rescue deal with the investor Carl Icahn.

• General Electric said its net income rose[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/18/business/ge-profit-rises-11-in-third-quarter.html] to $3.54 billion in the third quarter. Morgan Stanley[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/morgan-stanleys-profit-surges-in-quarter/]’s profit[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/morgan-stanleys-profit-surges-in-quarter/] rose more than expected.

NOTEWORTHY

• Giants will face the Royals.

San Francisco advanced to the World Series for the third time in five years Thursday night.

A ninth-inning three-run homer by Travis Ishikawa gave the Giants a 6-3 victory[http://mobile.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/sports/baseball/san-francisco-giants-advance-to-world-series.html] over the St. Louis Cardinals in Game 5 of the N.L. Championship Series. Game 1 of the World Series is Tuesday night in Kansas City.

• Remember the 1989 World Series?

Twenty-five years ago today, San Francisco was struck by a 6.9 magnitude earthquake[http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2014/10/15/bay-area-marks-25-years-since-loma-prieta-earthquake-watch-coverage-from-1989/] that killed at least 63 people and left $3 billion in destruction.

Many believe fatalities would have been worse if more people had been on the freeways rather than at the World Series game in Candlestick Park.

• On the silver screen.

Brad Pitt leads a World War II tank crew in “Fury,” opening today, which our film critic A. O. Scott considers[http://mobile.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/movies/movie-review-fury-has-brad-pitt-killing-nazis-again.html] a “sensitive and superbly acted tale of male bonding under duress.”

Another 15 films[http://www.nytimes.com/movies/intheaters.html] arrive in theaters today.

• Popular reads.

Gillian Flynn’s “Dark Places” spends its first week on our fiction best-seller list[http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers-books/2014-10-19/combined-print-and-e-book-fiction/list.html], coming in the Sunday Book Review. Her other novel, “Gone Girl,” remains No. 1.

And the Harvard linguist Steven Pinker’s “The Sense of Style,” an update on the rules of writing, enters our nonfiction list[http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers-books/2014-10-19/combined-print-and-e-book-nonfiction/list.html] at No. 7.

BACK STORY

Now in its 40th season, “Saturday Night Live” has long established itself as a television institution.

But last week’s episode scored the series’ lowest-ever ratings[https://deadline.com/2014/10/saturday-night-live-ratings-low-bill-hader-849973/] among 18- to 49-year-olds.

It was a reminder that the “SNL” struggles are as much a part of its story as its successes — something of a routine as cast members come and go[http://splitsider.com/2010/10/snl-and-the-curse-of-the-transitional-season/].

One of the bumpiest times followed the 1980 loss of the original[http://timesmachine.nytimes.com/timesmachine/1980/06/17/111168103.html?pageNumber=55] so-called “Not Ready for Primetime Players” and the executive producer Lorne Michaels. (He would return a few years later.)

The subsequent season was such a mess that Mr. Michaels’s replacement and much of the cast were fired[http://www.nytimes.com/1981/03/19/arts/3-in-saturday-night-live-cast-and-4-writers-are-dismissed.html] after only 12 episodes.

But if the show’s cycle holds up, new talents, memorable characters and influential one-liners will come around again.

People who “lament ‘Saturday Night Live[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/s/saturday_night_live/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier]’ is not as good as it once was,” Ryan McGee wrote for A.V. Club[http://www.avclub.com/review/transitional-season-saturday-night-live-struggles--204658], the entertainment website, “tend to selectively remember certain seminal sketches and forget the clunkers that surrounded them.”

Rick Rojas contributed reporting.

Your Morning Briefing is posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern.

What would you like to see here? Email us at briefing@nytimes.com[mailto:Briefing@NYTimes.com].

Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, from left, Matteo Renzi of Italy, and Petro Poroshenko of Ukraine, in Milan today. | Pool photo by Daniel Dal Zennaro

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141017eaah001xh


First Draft
Ron Klain: At Home in the Halls of Power
ALAN RAPPEPORT
248 words
17 October 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
The selection of Ron Klain as Ebola czar brings an experienced Washington hand and someone highly familiar with the workings of the Obama administration to the center of a growing health crisis.

While Mr. Klain does not have medical expertise, he knows his way around the worlds of government and business.

According to a Times profile[http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/24/us/politics/24web-klain.html?fta=y] of Mr. Klain upon his appointment as chief of staff to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. in 2008, Mr. Klain had held senior positions in all three branches of government and was previously chief of staff for Vice President Al Gore and Attorney General Janet Reno. Mr. Obama also considered him[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/11/us/politics/lew-to-complete-change-of-obamas-economic-team.html] as a possible chief of staff last year.

Mr. Klain has been immersed in the private sector since 2011, working as the president of Case Holdings and the general counsel at Revolution LLC, companies that were founded by Steve Case, the former chief executive of AOL. At Case, Mr. Klain has been responsible for managing corporate operations and strategy, and overseeing investments in Hawaii[http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ron-klain-named-president-of-case-holdings-112868139.html].

Mr. Klain is also known for his role in the recount of the 2000 presidential election, which was reprised in the HBO movie “Recount.”

Born in Indianapolis in 1961, Mr. Klain had his first internship on Capitol Hill at the age of 15, went to Georgetown University and graduated from Harvard Law School with the best grades in his class.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141017eaah0028o


You're the Boss
Business Day; Small Business
Today in Small Business: Paying Retail Employees $50,000 a Year
By GENE MARKS
562 words
17 October 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
What’s affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.

The Economy

* The United States has been resilient despite[http://www.foxbusiness.com/markets/2014/10/16/us-proves-surprisingly-resilient-despite-investor-panic-over-sputtering-global/] investor panic over a sputtering global economy.

* Jobless aid applications fall to[http://www.davisenterprise.com/local-news/associated-press/jobless-aid-applications-fall-to-14-year-low/] a 14-year low.

* Industrial production[http://www.marketwatch.com.proxy.bc.edu/story/industrial-production-jumps-1-in-september-2014-10-16] jumped in September.

* Homebuilder confidence[http://www.cnbc.com/id/102093376] drops.

* The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia[http://247wallst.com/economy/2014/10/16/philly-fed-positive-on-manufacturing/?] says there is continued expansion in the region’s manufacturing sector.

* This round-up of small-business surveys[http://www.inc.com/gene-marks/this-round-up-of-small-business-surveys-will-make-you-feel-better.html] will make you feel better.

Employees

* Here’s why the Container Store pays retail employees[http://www.businessinsider.com/the-container-store-pays-employees-50000-a-year-2014-10] $50,000 a year.

* Does dressing like a man lead to greater[http://www.dailyworth.com/posts/3021-rethinking-gender-and-fashion-in-the-workplace?u] success?

* Starbucks is going to let its employees[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2014/10/16/starbucks-tattoos-policy-work_n_5999746.html] show their tattoos.

* Hundreds of Walmart employees march outside[http://www.businessinsider.com/wal-mart-protestors-storm-park-avenue-2014-10] of Alice Walton’s Manhattan apartment.

* Walmart says it is phasing out[http://www.slate.com/blogs/moneybox/2014/10/16/walmart_eliminating_minimum_wage_pay_will_affect_about_6_000_workers.html] minimum wage pay and will be creating[http://www.foxbusiness.com/markets/2014/10/16/wal-mart-stores-inc-plans-ga-distribution-center-state-says-it-will-create-400/] 400-plus jobs at a distribution center in Georgia.

Management

* The chief executive of Amtrak discusses the challenges[http://www.citylab.com/politics/2014/10/a-chat-with-amtraks-ceo-on-the-state-of-us-passenger-rail/381538/] of running a national railroad.

* The founder of GoDaddy offers his views[http://cnb.cx/11ulCK2] on the economy.

* Bill Gates has a big idea[http://www.aei-ideas.org/2014/10/bill-gates-has-a-big-idea-for-tax-reform-and-its-excellent/?] for tax reform.

* Marcus Lemonis talks about why Crumbs cupcakes[http://www.inc.com/david-whitford/marcus-lemonis-on-growing-comnpanies-and-shrinking-cupcakes.html?cid=sf01001] are now smaller.

Marketing

* Here’s a guide to creating a marketing plan[http://blogs.salesforce.com/company/2014/09/small-business-marketing-strategy.html].

* And here’s how to re-purpose[http://juntaedelane.com/how-to-repurpose-content-to-maximize-your-marketing-dollar/?] content to maximize your marketing dollar.

* Hooters is asking[http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2014/10/16/the-misogynistic-companies-jumping-on-the-breast-cancer-bandwagon.html] people to “Give a Hoot” about breast cancer.

Social Media

* Wendy’s has had success online[http://adage.com/article/digital/wendy-s-beef-latest-creative-consultant-facebook/295357/?u] mostly due to its digital partner, Facebook.

Ebola

* A New York businessman claims he’s “making a killing[http://www.tmz.com/2014/10/15/ebola-c-supplement-ny-businessman-todd-spinelli-wafer/]” off Ebola.

* Ebola’s domain name[http://finance.yahoo.com/news/panic-profiteer-or-capitalist--selling-ebola-domain-name-for--150k-182117698.html?s] is for sale for $150,000.

* African journalists are harnessing technology[http://www.fastcompany.com/3037218/fast-feed/african-journalists-developing-digital-tools-to-fight-ebola] to fight rumors and misinformation around the struggle to contain the deadly disease.

* Here’s why a travel ban is tough[http://www.marketplace.org/topics/health-care/why-travel-ban-so-tough-pull] to pull off.

Start-Up

* Six things to do when starting a business[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lauren-jessen/6-things-to-do-when-start_b_5997426.html?] with a sibling.

* A start-up wants to streamline[http://www.entrepreneur.com/article/238612] the process of painting a room.

Around the Country

* A major settlement means Detroit may soon be pulling[http://www.rawstory.com/rs/2014/10/major-settlement-puts-detroit-closer-to-pulling-itself-out-of-bankruptcy/] itself out of bankruptcy.

* Regulators in Washington State are trying to make it easier[http://www.northwestgeorgianews.com/associated_press/news/national/washington-puts-pot-sales-fines-online-for-banks/article_d0fd2480-5551-11e4-b2fd-0017a43b2370.html] for financial institutions to track customers in the marijuana industry.

* A new competitor to Uber in New York will raise driver pay[http://www.crainsnewyork.com/article/20141015/TECHNOLOGY/141019918/a-new-uber-antagonist-rises-in-nycs-car-wars].

* There’s a baby boom[http://money.cnn.com/interactive/pf/north-dakota-baby-boom/index.html] in North Dakota.

* Detroit’s mayor apologizes[http://www.wxyz.com/news/duggan-personally-apologizes-to-business-owners-that-were-ticketed-by-mistake-for-graffiti-art] to business owners who were ticketed by mistake for graffiti art.

Around the World

* An Australian restaurant is making soup[http://www.springwise.com/australia-restaurant-soup-waste/] out of waste.

* Office Depot plans to cut 1,100[http://news.yahoo.com/office-depot-cut-1-100-jobs-europe-134557702--finance.html] jobs in Europe.

Washington

* The JOBS Act was supposed[http://www.inc.com/jeremy-quittner/equity-crowdfunding-platforms-soldier-on-without-title-three.html] to allow smaller investors to buy shares of private companies through crowdfunding.

Online

* A day after HBO’s announcement, CBS says it too will offer an online subscription service[http://online.wsj.com.proxy.bc.edu/articles/cbs-launches-online-subscription-video-service-1413465013?].

* Google’s ambitious broadband plans[http://www.pcworld.com/article/2835082/googles-ambitious-broadband-plans-include-testing-wireless-technology-filing-shows.html#tk.rss_all] include testing wireless technology.

Opportunities

* After last year’s rough winter[http://abcnews.go.com/Business/wireStory/snow-ice-profit-small-businesses-26217782] and with forecasts for another snowy season, some small-business owners are planning to make money.

Technology

* A Texas plant will capture and reuse carbon[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/business/energy-environment/texas-plant-to-capture-and-then-reuse-carbon.html].

* This is everything Apple announced[http://thenextweb.com/apple/2014/10/16/everything-apple-announced-ipad-mac-event/?] at an event yesterday (and Dr. Ruth tweets[http://mashable.com/2014/10/16/dr-ruth-apple-ipad-event-tweets/?] a sexy recap).

* Apple Pay officially arrives[http://www.entrepreneur.com/article/238618] Monday, and the financial services industry is “freaking out,[http://www.bloomberg.com/video/marc-andreessen-on-apple-pay-bitcoin-and-apple-tv-RQXUYGJyTqOTO8Lvg76WEA.html]” according to Marc Andreesen.

Gene Marks owns the Marks Group[http://www.marksgroup.net], a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter[http://www.twitter.com/genemarks].

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141017eaah0020b


DealBook
Business Day; Dealbook
Weekend Reading: Take the Wall St. Earnings Quiz
By DEALBOOK
1042 words
17 October 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
How well do you know Wall Street? Match the statements below with the following eight financial giants: JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup, Wells Fargo, Bank of America, BlackRock, Goldman Sachs, Blackstone Group and Morgan Stanley.

Quote 1: “[Our] unique business model, combining active and index products on a single platform alongside Aladdin’s industry-leading risk management and analytics capabilities, once again delivered strong results,” the chairman and chief said.

Quote 2: “There are a number of Americans who want to buy a home, who can afford to buy a home, who can’t get credit,” the bank’s chief executive said.

Quote 3: “We are well positioned to create superior returns for our shareholders, particularly as the U.S. economy continues to strengthen,” said the bank’s chief executive.

Quote 4: “It’s about visibility and sustainability of returns,” said a bank analyst.

Quote 5: “With one of the largest pools of dry powder capital, we can and will move quickly to respond to market dislocations,” the chairman and chief executive said. “These types of investment environments end up becoming some of our best vintages.”

Quote 6: “We remain focused on streamlining and simplifying our company and connecting customers and clients with the real economy, an approach that is paying dividends for them and for our shareholders,” the bank’s chief executive said.

Quote 7: “They appear to be executing quite well,” said a bank analyst. “The Wall Street stuff all grew faster than the total top line did.”

Quote 8: “Manuel Medina-Mora is a highly valued and well-respected member of the management team who has an outstanding track record globally in consumer banking, as today’s results show,” a bank spokesman said.

Answers: 1. BlackRock; 2. Wells Fargo; 3. Morgan Stanley; 4. Goldman Sachs; 5. Blackstone Group; 6. Bank of America; 7. JPMorgan Chase; 8. Citigroup.

A look back on our reporting of the past week’s highs and lows in finance.

FRIDAY

To Restore Confidence in Economy, a Test of Europe’s Banks | The European Central Bank results, which are set to be released next weekend, may further rattle the markets. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/to-restore-confidence-in-economy-a-test-of-europes-banks/]

Morgan Stanley’s Profit Surges in Quarter | At the end of a week that was buffeted by market tumult, the bank glided past Wall Street’s expectations. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/morgan-stanleys-profit-surges-in-quarter/]

THURSDAY

Big Firms Could Be Unable to Unload Risky Bonds | A growing number of regulators are warning that the positions being taken on by the big asset management firms pose a broad danger to the financial system. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/pimco-and-other-big-firms-could-face-liquidity-crisis-in-risky-bonds/]

Shivers in the Markets Portend a Freeze in Deal Circles | Wall Street’s big year of deal-making may have ended early — after peaking with Alibaba’s initial public offering. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/shivers-in-the-markets-portend-a-freeze-in-deal-circles/]

Calm Returns to Wall St., but Europe Remains a Worry | For a day at least, Wall Street was able to work through its worries about the world economy. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/u-s-stocks-open-lower/]

After Federal Case, Cohen’s New Firm Is Posting Enviable Gains on Investments | Steven Cohen’s family office is said to have generated a year-to-date gross profit of about $1.8 billion. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/new-name-new-office-similar-performance-for-steven-cohen/]

Varied Paths in Life After Galleon, but Few Led to Success | Five years after the arrest of Raj Rajaratnam, former Galleon portfolio managers and traders speak about their efforts to rebuild their lives. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/varied-paths-in-life-after-galleon-but-few-led-to-success/]

Goldman Earns Higher Profits, but Stock Falls on Worries Over Sustainable Returns | Investors and analysts expressed concerns that the performance might not be sustainable over time. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/goldman-sachs-tops-estimates-on-rise-in-market-volatility/]

Blackstone Sees Opportunity in Volatility | Blackstone suggested that the streak of high prices might be eroding, creating new opportunities. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/blackstone-reporting-higher-profit-sees-opportunity-in-market-turmoil/]

WEDNESDAY

Steep Sell-Off Spreads Fear to Wall Street | The party is over. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/15/stocks-tumble-on-global-growth-worries/]

Crackdown Is Said to Sink AbbVie Deal | The biggest corporate takeover of the year has essentially been called off. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/abbvie-board-recommends-shareholders-vote-against-shire-acquisition/]

Cyberattack at JPMorgan Hit Race Site | The JPMorgan Chase Corporate Challenge website was also a target for the same cyberthieves who successfully breached the bank’s digital perimeters. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/15/cyberattack-at-jpmorgan-chase-also-hit-website-of-banks-corporate-race/]

Legal Charge for Mortgage Settlement Decreases Profit at Bank of America | The settlement obscured otherwise decent quarterly results in the bank’s investment banking and credit-card businesses. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/15/big-legal-charge-drags-down-bank-of-americas-profit/]

BlackRock’s Profit Surged 26% in Third Quarter |Investors continued to pour money into the asset manager’s index funds. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/15/blackrock-shows-strong-earnings-growth/]

TUESDAY

Another Scandal Hits Citigroup’s Moneymaking Mexican Division | DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/14/citigroup-says-earnings-rise-13-as-it-discloses-a-second-inquiry-in-mexico/]

After Tax Rule Changes, AbbVie to Reconsider Inversion Deal for Shire | The White House’s campaign to clamp down on inversions is having some effect. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/14/abbvie-to-reconsider-inversion-deal-for-shire/]

Trading Revenue Lifts JPMorgan Back to Profit in 3rd Quarter | The earnings in the latest quarter were hampered by the $1.1 billion the bank set aside for legal costs. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/14/jpmorgan-returns-to-a-profit-in-the-third-quarter/]

Wells Fargo Still Wary of Home Loans | The housing bust ended several years ago, but the big mortgage banks are still acting as if the home loan business were fraught with peril. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/14/wells-fargo-posts-gain-for-quarter-as-corporate-loans-rise/]

Deal Professor: As Activist Investors Gain Strength, Boards Surrender | Shareholder activism has rapidly changed how corporate America thinks. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/14/as-activist-shareholders-gain-strength-boards-surrender-to-demands/]

MONDAY

Putting the Berkshire Brand Before Buffett | More than ever, the 84-year-old investor is promoting the Berkshire Hathaway brand instead of himself. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/13/putting-the-berkshire-brand-before-warren-buffett/]

Andrew Ross Sorkin: Calculating Grim Economic Costs of Ebola Outbreak | The topic everyone on Wall Street is discussing urgently but quietly isn’t the volatile stock market. It is Ebola. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/13/calculating-the-grim-costs-of-ebola/]

Tired of Being Rebuffed, France’s Iliad Ends Bid for T-Mobile US | From the start, it was one of the most audacious takeover attempts in recent memory. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/13/iliad-abandons-effort-to-gain-control-of-t-mobile-us/]

Fidelity Names New Chief, Granddaughter of the Founder | Fidelity Investments has named Abigail Johnson as chief executive, a largely expected move that nonetheless ended years of speculation. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/13/abigail-johnson-named-to-top-post-at-fidelity/]

Ackman Fund’s I.P.O. Has Rough Debut in Amsterdam | The stock, trading under the ticker PSH.AS, took a 12 percent skid in its first day. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/13/ackman-fund-stumbles-in-amsterdam-trading-debut/]

SUNDAY

Canadian Line Talks to CSX About Merger | A deal would unite two of the biggest railroad operators at a time when rail traffic in North America is soaring. DealBook »[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/12/canadian-pacific-makes-deal-overture-to-csx/]

WEEK IN VERSE

[Video: Watch on YouTube.[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-OQcglFoL_Y]]

The Party’s Over | A wild week for global stock markets has DealBook quoting Willie Nelson. YouTube »[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-OQcglFoL_Y]

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141017eaah002ml


Times Insider
Tune In to The Times
JORDAN COHEN
201 words
17 October 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
Over the past week, New York Times reporters and contributors participated in interviews regarding their coverage and other top news stories. Below are highlights from television and radio.

Helene Cooper, a Pentagon correspondent with The New York Times, joined NBC’s “Meet the Press”[http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/ebola-virus-outbreak/helene-cooper-re-entering-u-s-west-africa-n224076] to discuss precautions taken by Liberia and the United States to prevent the spread of Ebola.

C.J. Chivers joined “The Colbert Report” on Comedy Central[http://thecolbertreport.cc.com/video-playlists/hnquij/the-colbert-report-11012-highlights/aywapn] to discuss his front-page article[http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/10/14/world/middleeast/us-casualties-of-iraq-chemical-weapons.html] in The Times on Wednesday about Iraq’s abandoned chemical weapons.

The New York Times editorial board member Ernesto Londoño joined CNN en Español[http://www.cnn.com/video/?/video/spanish/2014/10/15/exp-dusa-londono-nyt-editorial-cuba.cnn&video_referrer=] to discuss the Times editorial “Obama Should End the Embargo on Cuba.[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/12/opinion/sunday/end-the-us-embargo-on-cuba.html]”

Adam Nossiter, Central and West Africa bureau chief for The Times, joined BBC World News[https://www.facebook.com/video.php?v=10153734342292588] to discuss his experience covering the Ebola outbreak in Sierra Leone[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/11/world/africa/officials-admit-a-defeat-by-ebola-in-sierra-leone.html?_r=0].

David Segal, a Times reporter, discussed the latest article in The Times’s e-sports series[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/12/technology/riot-games-league-of-legends-main-attraction-esports.html] on WOSU radio station’s “All Sides With Ann Fisher.”[http://wosu.org/2012/allsides/tech-tuesday-e-sports-automation-gadgetry/]

Ginia Bellafante, The Times’s Big City columnist, discussed her deep dive on New York City’s community colleges[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/05/nyregion/community-college-students-face-a-very-long-road-to-graduation.html] on WNYC’s “Brian Lehrer Show.”[http://www.wnyc.org/story/how-make-community-college-work/]

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141017eaah002ut


Joe Nocera
Opinion
Joe on WNYC’s Money Talking
136 words
17 October 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
Is it the bad news out of Europe or those disappointing retail numbers? Maybe it’s just Ebola. Whatever the catalyst, global financial markets were on a roller coaster this week with a deep plunge by the S&P 500 followed by a sharp U-turn thanks to Morgan Stanley’s better-than-expected quarterly earnings. Things look calmer heading into the weekend, but some analysts are questioning whether the new volatility signals a slowdown in global growth.

This week on Money Talking, Joe Nocera and Rana Foroohar look at the multiple international crises worrying traders and discuss some of the challenges facing the European Central Bank. Plus, how the Federal Reserve’s scheduled end to its bond-buying program will impact growth.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141017eaah00335


U.S.
Your Evening Briefing
By RICK ROJAS and ELISABETH BUMILLER
1047 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Good evening.

Here’s what you need to know from NYT Now:

• In charge.

The Obama administration’s new Ebola czar, Ron Klain[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/18/us/ron-klain-chief-of-staff-to-2-vice-presidents-is-named-ebola-czar.html], is a Beltway insider, someone who knows how the government works and how the president thinks.

The surprising part is what he isn’t: a health professional, or a calming and avuncular presence on camera like, say, C. Everett Koop.

But he has spent time with President Obama (having served as his debate coach), and knows how to maneuver within the White House and through government bureaucracy.

“The selection underscores how politically volatile the issue of Ebola has become, and the risks it presents Mr. Obama as he juggles international crises and an upcoming election,” says our veteran political reporter Adam Nagourney.

The next few months will tell whether or not Mr. Klain brings the kind of skill set needed to restore confidence in the government’s handling of Ebola, he says.

"The key question now is how much the White House is going to want Mr. Klain to be the public face of the government in dealing with Ebola,” Mr. Nagourney says.

“And how good at that he might be.”

• Big title.

In appointing Mr. Klain, President Obama is turning to a timeworn Washington approach.

The idea is that a single empowered official can whack through bureaucratic thickets and coordinate across agencies.

A few czars have achieved that.

William E. Simon got good marks as President Nixon’s energy czar; Tom Ridge, after 9/11, grew his role as homeland security czar into a cabinet position, leading a new agency.

But many others have largely been forgettable, says Paul C. Light, an expert on public service at New York University.

The reality is that these officials — appointed without Congressional input — have no budget authority or power over cabinet secretaries.

“One would be hard-pressed to name a half-dozen czars of the past 20 years,” Mr. Light says. “They’re not visible and they come and go.”

• Viral, but in a good way.

Late-night TV shows are finding new relevance as their skits thrive in today’s viral clip culture.

Just this week, Jimmy Fallonbreakdanced[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wBij_rEXdCk] with Brad Pitt, and his parody song with will.i.am, “Ew,”[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uMBXhDcogcI] climbed the charts[http://www.billboard.com/articles/columns/chart-beat/6281821/jimmy-fallon-ew-hot-100].

This follows Mr. Fallon’s “mom” dancing[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hq-URl9F17Y] with Michelle Obama. Jimmy Kimmel has had plenty of successes as well, like clips of celebrities reading mean tweets about themselves[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=imW392e6XR0&list=PLs4hTtftqnlAkiQNdWn6bbKUr-P1wuSm0].

The videos aren’t so much a source of profit, but they reach people who have strayed from traditional television viewing, says Bill Carter, our television reporter.

“There are a lot of young people who aren’t watching these shows and go online the next day for highlights,” Mr. Carter says.

“It’s a way to keep the show in the front of the culture.”

MARKETS

• Wall Street stocks rebounded. The S.&P. 500 gained 1.3 percent.

TONIGHT

• Music across the land.

A new eight-part series shows the Foo Fighters recording eight songs in eight cities for their eighth album, on their 20th anniversary. Got all that?

Each episode, beginning tonight in Chicago, will explore the musical heritage of the city, and include appearances by native musicians. (11 p.m. Eastern, HBO)

• Transgender perspectives.

A transgender star of “Orange Is the New Black” introduces seven transgender people who share stories about identity, coming out, bullying and violence against them, in “Laverne Cox Presents: The T Word.” (7 p.m. Eastern, MTV and Logo)

Then Ms. Cox and SuChin Pak interview the subjects of the documentary in “Trans Forum,” at 8 p.m. Eastern, on Logo and MTV.com[http://mtv.com].

• Season finale.

A doctor (played by Clive Owen) is obsessed with beating his rival to a breakthrough in blood-transfusion research, as Season 1 of “The Knick” comes to a close. (10 p.m. Eastern, Cinemax)

• Week in review.

On “Washington Week,” the host, Gwen Ifill, discusses Ebola, Turkey, the fight against ISIS and the midterm elections with Josh Gerstein of Politico, Hannah Allam of McClatchy Newspapers, Eamon Javers of CNBC and John Dickerson of Slate. (8 p.m., PBS, check local listings as times may vary)

• If you’re staying up …

On “Real Time With Bill Maher: Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York; David Frum, senior editor of The Atlantic; Representative Barbara Lee, Democrat of California; and David Miliband, president and chief executive of the International Rescue Committee. (10 p.m. Eastern, HBO, repeated at 11 p.m.)

“The Tonight Show”: Bradley Cooper, who is coming to Broadway in “Elephant Man” and stars in the coming film “American Sniper”; Neil Diamond performs. (11:35 p.m. Eastern, NBC)

“Late Show With David Letterman”: Jessica Chastain of the coming film “Interstellar”; the stand-up comedian Lenny Marcus; and music from Foo Fighters, who have an eight-part travelogue [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/arts/television/dave-grohl-in-foo-fighters-sonic-highways-on-hbo.html]on HBO and have been sitting in with Mr. Letterman all week. (11:35 p.m. Eastern, CBS)

THIS WEEKEND

Saturday

• A U.S.-built field hospital for Ebola treatment is due to open in Liberia. More more than 4,400 people have died of the virus in West Africa.

• It’s a state holiday in Alaska, which is celebrating the formal transfer of the territory from Russia to the U.S. in 1867.

• In college football, No. 5 Notre Dame visits No. 2 Florida State, the defending national champions. (8 p.m. Eastern, ABC)

SUNDAY

• Chile hosts the Homeless World Cup. Soccer players from 46 countries, who have spent some of their lives without a fixed address, compete[http://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/10/09/in-this-world-cup-the-goal-is-a-better-life/] before tens of thousands.

• The Denver Broncos host the San Francisco 49ers at 8 p.m. Eastern on NBC.

The Broncos’ Peyton Manning is two touchdown passes away from equaling Brett Favre’s record of 508 regular-season TD throws.

Adeel Hassan and Andrea Kannapell contributed reporting.

Your Evening Briefing is posted at 5 p.m. weekdays.

Don’t miss Your Morning Briefing at 6 a.m. weekdays.

What would you like to see here? Email us at nytnow@nytimes.com[mailto:nytnow@nytimes.com].

Jimmy Fallon and will.i.am made the Billboard Hot 100 with in their video "Ew!" Skits that can circulate on social media help build late-night TV's relevance. | NBC

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141017eaah003ph


City Room
N.Y. / Region
New York Today: Goodbye, Week
By ANNIE CORREAL
1143 words
17 October 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
Good morning on this fine Friday.

And goodbye, week.

You were kind of a blur — wet one moment, sunny the next.

Fortunately, Times photographers caught you for posterity:

From high in the city’s new tallest residential condo, 432 Park Avenue[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/14/nyregion/432-park-avenue-tower-the-tallest-if-not-the-fairest-of-them-all.html?#slideshow/100000003172227/100000003172254].

To deep in the transit system[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/nyregion/a-new-york-subway-line-that-doubles-as-an-art-gallery.html?module=Search&mabReward=relbias%3As%2C{%221%22%3A%22RI%3A8%22}#slideshow/100000003175709/100000003175723].

And at street level, where costumed characters roamed around the Javits Center for the Comic Con[http://www.newyorkcomiccon.com/] festival last weekend.

We checked in with the photographer Fred R. Conrad, whose portraits of Comic Con cosplay contestants[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/19/nyregion/tremble-mortals.html] (that’s short for costume play) are featured in this weekend’s newspaper.

“They opened their lives to us,” Mr. Conrad said. “We got a glimpse of how involved it was, creating their characters.”

One participant, Dhareza Maramis, works as an art director at an advertising agency.

Mr. Maramis’s cosplay character was Batman Thrasher, which Mr. Conrad said looked “sort of like Batman after he has been run over by a truck.”

Mr. Conrad has covered Comic Con for a few years.

This year, he said, “It hit a threshold.”

“The greatest indication was George Clooney interrupted his honeymoon to attend the conference.”

(He sat on a panel. He was not in costume.)

Alas, Mr. Conrad was not able to shoot that photograph.

“They said, ‘No pictures of George Clooney at Comic Con!’”

See the Week in Pictures slide show[http://www.nytimes.com/slideshow/2014/10/16/nyregion/newyorktoday/NY-week-in-pictures-Oct17.html], and here’s what else you need to know for Friday and the weekend.

WEATHER

Almost painfully good. Sunny with a high of 70[http://forecast.weather.gov/MapClick.php?lat=40.77657244207131&lon=-73.96940231323242#.VEDZRkh8FI6] and a gentle breeze.

On Saturday, wear sunglasses but be prepared to take them off. A few more clouds arrive.

On Sunday, buy a kite. It will be windy, with gusts of up to 31 m.p.h.

COMING UP TODAY

• Representative Michael Grimm and his Democratic challenger, Domenic Recchia, debate[http://www.silive.com/news/index.ssf/2014/10/gop_rep_michael_grimm_domenic.html] at the ABC studios. 2 p.m. [Livestream[http://7online.com/]]

• Governor Cuomo travels to Puerto Rico and Dominican Republic[http://blogs.wsj.com.proxy.bc.edu/metropolis/2014/10/15/cuomo-schedules-trip-to-dominican-republic-puerto-rico/] seeking Latino support for his re-election campaign.

• Health officials hold a town hall-style meeting in Park Hill on Staten Island, which has a large West African population, to address concerns about Ebola. P. S. 57. 6 p.m.

• See 48 life-size fiberglass sculptures in praying poses [http://www.stjohndivine.org/programs/art/upcoming-exhibitions] at St. John the Divine in Morningside Heights. [Free] …

• … Or 2,000 pounds of cranberries in floating poses[http://www.rockefellercenter.com/events/2014/10/14/ocean-spray-cranberry-bog-2014/] at Ocean Spray’s simulated cranberry bog at Rockefeller Center. [Free]

• The Imagine Science Film Festival[http://imaginesciencefilms.org/events/], featuring 89 films exploring time — “time-lapse, evolution, aging, development, time travel and geologic time” — kicks off at Google in the meatpacking district.

• Free-range art studio tourism galore. High Line Open Studios[http://www.highlineopenstudios.org/index.htm] opens in Chelsea and Gowanus Open Studios[http://www.artsicle.com/communities/gowanus-open-studios] gets going in Brooklyn.

COMMUTE

• Subway[http://new.mta.info/] and PATH[http://www.paalerts.com/recent_pathalerts.aspx] .

• L.I.R.R., Metro-North[http://new.mta.info/], N.J. Transit[http://www.njtransit.com/sa/sa_servlet.srv?hdnPageAction=TravelAlertsTo], Amtrak[http://www.amtrak.com/service-alerts-and-notices] .

• Roads: Check traffic map[http://newyork.cbslocal.com/traffic/] or radio report on the 1s[http://betaplayer.radio.com/player/1010-wins] or the 8s[http://betaplayer.radio.com/player/wcbs-newsradio-880].

• Alternate-side parking: suspended[http://www.nyc.gov/html/dot/html/motorist/alternate-side-parking.shtml#cal].

• Air travel: La Guardia[http://flightaware.com/live/airport/KLGA], J.F.K.[http://flightaware.com/live/airport/KJFK], Newark[http://flightaware.com/live/airport/KEWR].

• Weekend travel hassles: Check subway disruptions[http://mta.info/weekender.html] or list of street closings[http://www.nyc.gov/html/dot/html/motorist/wkndtraf.shtml].

IN THE NEWS

• A Yale student who had traveled to Liberia and was hospitalized with Ebola-like symptoms did not have the virus. [New York Times[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/nyregion/yale-graduate-student-with-ebola-like-symptoms.html]]

• A passenger died on a Nigeria-to-J.F.K. flight after a vomiting fit but was also found not to have Ebola. [New York Post[http://nypost.com/2014/10/16/alarm-after-vomiting-passenger-dies-on-flight-from-nigeria-to-jfk/]]

• The city’s firefighters have been barred from saying “Ebola” over their radios to avoid creating panic. [Daily Mail[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2795225/new-york-city-firefighters-banned-saying-ebola-radio-avoid-creating-widespread-panic.htmlbr]]

• A 100-year-old woman is still teaching math at an elementary school in Dyker Heights, Brooklyn. She appears to be very small. [DNAinfo[http://www.dnainfo.com/new-york/20141017/dyker-heights/100-year-old-math-teacher-still-going-strong-at-brooklyn-elementary-school]]

• JPMorgan Chase wants to build a corporate campus for 16,000 workers at the Hudson Yards. [New York Times[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/nyregion/jpmorgan-chase-seeks-incentives-to-build-new-headquarters-in-manhattan.html?ref=nyregion]]

• Two people were killed when their motorcycle hit a concrete barrier and they were launched off the Gowanus Expressway onto the roadway below. [Daily News[http://www.nydailynews.com/new-york/brooklyn/motorcycle-riders-die-thrown-brooklyn-expressway-article-1.1977666]]

• The few live peep shows left in Times Square seem to visitors like a curious relic of a bygone era. “It’s kind of like a joke now,” one dancer said. [New York Times[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/nyregion/the-live-peep-show-a-relic-of-a-bygone-times-square-endures.html?ref=nyregion]]

• Scoreboard: Patriots ground Jets[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/sports/football/ny-jets-do-everything-but-win-the-game.html], 27-25. Rangers outrun Hurricanes[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/sports/hockey/rangers-and-islanders-prevail-in-shootouts-.html], 2-1. Islanders kabob Sharks[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/sports/hockey/rangers-and-islanders-prevail-in-shootouts-.html], 4-3. Capitals scare Devils[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/sports/hockey/rangers-and-islanders-prevail-in-shootouts-.html], 6-2.

• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Friday Briefing[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/us/latest-news-ebola-hurricane-gonzalo-world-series.html?hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&version=HpHeadline&module=first-column-region®ion=top-news&WT.nav=top-news].

THE WEEKEND

Saturday

• Potato sack racing and a square dance at a Harvest Fest in Battery Park[http://www.nycgovparks.org/events/2014/10/18/harvest-fest-square-dance]. Noon to 6:30 p.m. [Free]

• “What the heck is a G.M.O.?”[http://maysles.org/mdc/the-natural-living-film-festival/] is the title of a talk by a raw-food-eating investigative reporter at Maysles Documentary Center in Harlem. 1 p.m. [Free]

• Gigantic, a Brooklyn-based magazine of short prose, offers its new issue, “Gigantic Ha Ha,”[https://www.facebook.com/events/1473548316257710/] at Be Electric Studios in Bushwick. 8 p.m.

Sunday

• Pickle Day[http://pickleday.nyc/] returns to the Lower East Side with awful puns à la “big dill.” Noon to 5. [Free except for the pickles]

• The Harvest Fest and Pumpkin Patch[http://www.queensbotanical.org/programs/harvestfest/harvestfestschedule] at the Queens Botanical Garden offers yarn bracelet making and a compost demonstration. Noon to 6 p.m. [$4]

• The Pelham Bay Fall Festival,[http://www.eventbrite.com/e/friends-of-parks-split-rock-golf-course-fall-festival-bronxtoberfest-tickets-13100843977] with a Bronxtober beer hall tent, comes to Pelham-Split Rock Golf Course. 2 to 7 p.m. [$10]

• For more events, see The New York TimesArts & Entertainment guide[http://www.nytimes.com/events].

• And if you’re looking for fun outside New York City, The Times’s Metropolitan section has suggestions. See Friday and Saturday listings for Westchester[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/12/nyregion/events-in-westchester-for-oct-12-18-2014.html], Long Island[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/12/nyregion/events-on-long-island-for-oct-12-18-2014.html], New Jersey[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/12/nyregion/events-in-new-jersey-for-oct-12-18-2014.html] and Connecticut[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/12/nyregion/events-in-connecticut-for-oct-12-18-2014.html]. See Sunday listings for Westchester[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/19/nyregion/events-in-westchester-for-oct-19-25.html], Long Island[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/19/nyregion/events-on-long-island-for-oct-19-25-2014.html], New Jersey[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/19/nyregion/events-in-new-jersey-for-oct-19-25-2014.html] and Connecticut[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/19/nyregion/events-in-connecticut-for-oct-19-25-2014.html].

AND FINALLY …

On this date in 1966, as a drugstore burned at 23rd and Broadway, the floor collapsed.

At the time, it was the biggest disaster in New York Fire Department history.

Twelve firefighters died, leaving behind 12 widows and 32 children.

But in an astounding show of solidarity, “some 2,000 firefighters responded; at the time it was the largest gathering at a single working fire in American history,” The Times reported[http://www.nytimes.com/2003/10/12/nyregion/grievous-day-eclipsed-sept-11-some-never-forget-oct-17-once-fire-department-s.html?module=Search&mabReward=relbias%3As%2C{%221%22%3A%22RI%3A8%22}].

Years later, one firefighter, Manuel Fernandez, remembered going home exhausted after fighting the blaze for hours.

“He recalls drinking a tall glass of Scotch and trying unsuccessfully to sleep,” The Times reported. “After an hour, he went back to the site.”

Since Sept. 11, 2001, the fallen of Oct. 17th have been somewhat forgotten.

If you know of a tribute, tell us in the comments or through Twitter with #nytoday.

Kenneth Rosen contributed reporting.

New York Today[http://cityroom.blogs.nytimes.com/category/new-york-today/] is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late morning. You can receive it via email[http://www.nytimes.com/marketing/newyorktoday/].

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com[mailto:nytoday@nytimes.com], or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday[https://twitter.com/search?q=%23NYToday&src=hash&mode=realtime].

Follow the New York Today columnists, Annie Correal[https://twitter.com/anniecorreal] and Andy Newman[https://twitter.com/andylocal], on Twitter.

You can always find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com[http://www.nytoday.com/nytoday].

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141017eaah00106


A
WHITE HOUSE TAKES DROP-EVERYTHING APPROACH TO RESPOND TO PUBLIC HEALTH CRISIS
By MICHAEL D SHEAR
73 words
17 October 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
15
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Pres Obama remains at White House to focus on government's response to Ebola outbreak; cancels second day of election-season travel as administration concentrates on what is already turning into political as well as public health crisis; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention director Dr Thomas R Frieden undergoes sharp questioning before House committee. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141018eaah0004x


A
OUT ON THE FRONT LINES, RISKS AND DUTY COLLIDE
By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL
57 words
17 October 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
14
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Health care workers treating Ebola are forced to learn a great deal in a short time, as they did in the early days of the AIDS epidemic; nurses' unions have been vocal in raising concerns and lead charge for better protection. Photo (M)

Photograph

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141018eaah0004t


A
IN LAYERS OF GEAR, U.S. DOCTOR OFFERS HEALING HAND IN LIBERIA
By SHERI FINK
81 words
17 October 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
1
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Dr Steven Hatch, an American volunteer at new clinic in Liberia, run by the charity International Medical Corps, is learning ways of the Ebola ward; much of West Africa follows no-hands rule to avoid contagion, but doctors and nurses here, protected by layers of plastic and rubber armor, routinely touch the sick, offering medications and simple comforts (Series: The Ebola Ward). Photos (M)

Combination

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141018eaah0004c


A
EUROPE EVALUATES EBOLA MEASURES AS POSSIBILITY OF NEW CASES ARISES IN FRANCE AND SPAIN
By AURELIEN BREEDEN and RAPHAEL MINDER
48 words
17 October 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
12
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Several new suspected cases of Ebola are reported in France and Spain, amid heightened fears in Europe that measures to prevent virus from spreading are insufficient. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141018eaah0004f


A
KEEPING EBOLA AT BAY
70 words
17 October 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
30
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Editorial contends Ebola cases in United States show US hospitals and public health officials have much to learn about protecting health care workers and public from possible infection; maintains mistakes by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are alarming; cautions against barring entry to people from Ebola-stricken countries, saying flight ban only makes it more likely disease would spread past porous African borders. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141018eaah0004g


A
IN CITIES WITH WEST AFRICAN POPULATIONS, HOSPITALS TAKE EXTRA STEPS
By PAM BELLUCK
54 words
17 October 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
14
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Hospitals in cities with large West African populations are bracing for first patients with Ebola; patient screening, protections for hospital employees and efforts to encourage people to report symptoms and take precautions are being put in place. Photo (M)

Photograph

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141018eaah0004n


A
CONTROLS POOR IN DALLAS, NURSE SAYS
By KEVIN SACK
49 words
17 October 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
14
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Briana Aguirre, nurse at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas where Ebola patient Thomas Eric Duncan was cared for, says she has lost confidence in her employer and fears that staff have been put at risk. Photo (M)

Photograph

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141018eaah0004q


A
OBAMA MAY NAME 'CZAR' TO OVERSEE EBOLA RESPONSE
By JACK HEALY and SABRINA TAVERNISE
93 words
17 October 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
1
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
President Obama raises possibility that he will appoint an 'Ebola czar' to manage government's response to deadly virus as anxiety of American public grows; schools close in two states, and hospitals and airlines keep employees home from work as Centers for Disease Control and Prevention continues efforts to track people who had contact with Amber Joy Vinson, nurse infected with Ebola virus at Dallas hospital who then traveled on commercial airline flight to Cleveland. Photos (M)

Combination

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141018eaah0004s


First Draft
Hagan’s Shift on Ebola Travel Ban
ALAN RAPPEPORT
288 words
17 October 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
The politics of Ebola have been swirling for awhile, and Senator Kay Hagan, the Democratic incumbent facing a tough re-election race in North Carolina, just made a change in direction.

Earlier this week, Ms. Hagan sided with the Obama administration, expressing skepticism that banning flights from West African countries was the answer for battling the epidemic.

Although she had said earlier that she was open to the idea as part of a range of solutions, she had declined to embrace a travel ban and expressed doubts on multiple occasions about the effectiveness of one at stopping the spread of the virus.

“That’s not going to solve this problem,” she had said during a recent news conference[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ioc2ZShFfCY&feature=youtu.be]. “That’s not going to contain the epidemic that we see happening in Africa.”

Calls for a ban have largely broken down along party lines, with most Republicans demanding restrictions and most Democrats claiming that a ban would be counterproductive.

After facing withering criticism from her Republican rival, Thom Tillis, Ms. Hagan on Friday that it was time to support a ban and called for immediate action.

“I am calling on the administration to temporarily ban the travel of non-U.S. citizens from the affected countries in West Africa,” Ms. Hagan said in a statement[http://www.hagan.senate.gov/?p=press_release&id=2819].

Calling the idea a “prudent step,” Ms. Hagan said she had been making the case all along that a ban could be part of a “broad strategy” in dealing with the deadly virus in the United States.

Clarification: This post has been updated to clarify that Ms. Hagan had expressed openness to a travel ban before explicitly calling for one.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141017eaah002uu


Well
Health
Ask Well: Do Mosquitoes Spread Ebola?
By DONALD G. MCNEIL JR.
327 words
17 October 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
Question:

Do mosquitoes spread Ebola in Africa?

Answer:

No. Africa has plenty of mosquitoes, and plenty of diseases spread by mosquitoes, but Ebola is not one of them.

 

To understand why mosquitoes are not carriers of Ebola, it is important to understand how mosquitoes bite. Only female mosquitoes bite, and they do not fly from person to person, biting one after another. They only hunt for blood when they plan to lay eggs. (At other times, female mosquitoes, like male mosquitoes, live on sugary plant nectar).

 

When a mosquito sucks blood, the insect’s abdomen swells up, and the mosquito immediately finds rest on a wall or tree for hours or days to digest the blood and let it nourish her eggs. Then the mosquito flies around seeking water in which to lay the eggs. Only after laying the eggs does the mosquito look for another meal.

 

All mosquito-borne diseases — malaria[http://www.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/malaria/overview.html], yellow fever[http://www.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/yellow-fever/overview.html?WT.z_gsac=1], West Nile virus[http://www.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/west-nile-virus/overview.html], dengue fever[http://www.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/dengue-fever/overview.html], chikungunya[http://www.cdc.gov.proxy.bc.edu/chikungunya/] and elephantiasis[http://www.who.int.proxy.bc.edu/mediacentre/factsheets/fs102/en/], for example — have slowly merged into this feeding cycle through evolution. Mosquitoes are not born with these diseases. A mosquito must pick up a disease from a human, and then the disease has to survive the digestive process and get into position to infect the next human. In the case of malaria, which kills more than 600,000 people every year, the parasites in the blood stored in the mosquito’s gut spend up to two weeks changing into five different forms. Two of those forms “mate,” creating a final form that migrates through the mosquito to end up in her salivary glands.

 

When mosquitoes bites, they inject saliva, which contains anticoagulants so they don’t get clots in the thin proboscis — the straw they have in place of a mouth — that they insert into you. Ebola can’t get into mosquito saliva, so mosquitoes don’t transmit it.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141017eaah0030d


U.S.
Obama May Name ‘Czar’ to Oversee Ebola Response
By JACK HEALY, SABRINA TAVERNISE and ABBY GOODNOUGH
2133 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Correction Appended

DALLAS — President Obama[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/o/barack_obama/index.html?inline=nyt-per] raised the possibility on Thursday that he might appoint an “Ebola czar” to manage the government’s response to the deadly virus as anxiety grew over the air travel of an infected nurse.

Schools closed in two states, hospitals and airlines kept employees home from work, and Americans debated how much they should worry about a disease that has captured national attention but has infected two people here.

A federal official said that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/c/centers_for_disease_control_and_prevention/index.html?inline=nyt-org] had broadened its search for contacts of Amber Joy Vinson, the second nurse infected with Ebola at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital here, after interviewing family members who gave a different version of events from Ms. Vinson’s. The nurse had said she had a slight fever before boarding a flight from Cleveland to Dallas on Monday. But family members said she had appeared remote and unwell during her trip to Ohio over the weekend.

The C.D.C. said it was now tracking down passengers on Frontier Airlines Flight 1142 from Dallas to Cleveland, which Ms. Vinson took last Friday. It had already been tracing passengers on her Monday flight.

Ms. Vinson’s case raised flags for investigators because the day after she arrived home in Dallas, she reported substantial symptoms. Health experts say those would be unlikely to develop in just one day.

Seven people in Ohio were voluntarily quarantined because they had contact with Ms. Vinson during her trip, health officials said on Thursday. Crew members from Ms. Vinson’s flight were put on a three-week paid leave. And anxieties mounted among parents and students who received notices that their local schools were being closed for cleanings.

“It’s put a lot more fear into people,” said Michelle Eisenberg, a mother who lives in the Solon school district in Ohio, where two schools were closed on Thursday. “They’re saying there’s no risk, but no one knows for sure.”

Mr. Obama spoke Thursday night after meeting with several top aides working on the Ebola issue. The president praised their work but said they were also responsible for other tasks, including national security matters and other health care concerns.

“It may be appropriate for me to appoint an additional person, not because they haven’t been doing an outstanding job, really working hard on this issue, but they are also responsible for a whole bunch of other stuff,” Mr. Obama told reporters.

He added that appointing an Ebola chief would make sense “just to make sure that we are crossing all the t’s and dotting all the i’s going forward.” He declined to say when he might do so.

Earlier in the day, lawmakers on Capitol Hill pummeled federal health officials[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/us/ebola-dallas-texas-presbyterian-hospital-apology.html] for their response to the public-health emergency that erupted after a Liberian man, Thomas Eric Duncan, tested positive for Ebola[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/01/health/airline-passenger-with-ebola-is-under-treatment-in-dallas.html] last month. Ms. Vinson and another infected nurse, Nina Pham[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/14/us/ebola-puts-nina-pham-a-dedicated-nurse-unaccustomed-to-the-spotlight-in-its-glare.html], were among nearly 100 workers at the Dallas hospital who cared for Mr. Duncan before his death[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/09/us/ebola-us-thomas-eric-duncan.html] on Oct. 8.

On Thursday, to ease the burden on Presbyterian, Ms. Pham was transferred at the hospital’s request to a specialized unit at the National Institutes of Health in Maryland. Ms. Vinson was flown on Wednesday to Emory University Hospital in Atlanta, which has successfully treated[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/22/us/two-us-ebola-patients-are-released-by-atlanta-hospital.html] two other American Ebola patients.

Health officials said that Presbyterian was being strained in its effort to monitor dozens of health care workers who might have been exposed to the virus. Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, director of the C.D.C., told members of Congress that the agency “felt it would be more prudent to focus on caring for any patients who come in with symptoms.”

Another line of questioning dealt with why Ms. Vinson had been allowed to fly even after she called the C.D.C. from the Cleveland airport on Monday and told officials she had a slight fever. It was not known then that she had contracted the virus.

“Were you part of those conversations?” Representative Tim Murphy, Republican of Pennsylvania, asked Dr. Frieden.

“No, I was not,” Dr. Frieden responded.

The hearing thrust the Ebola virus and the government’s halting management of it into the realm of politics in the midst of a national election season.

“Errors in judgment have been made,” Mr. Murphy said. “We have been told, ‘Virtually any hospital in the country that can do isolation can do isolation for Ebola.’ The events in Dallas have proven otherwise.”

Public-health experts said the school closings were panicked overreactions[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/health/ebolas-other-contagious-threat-hysteria.html] to a virus that is spread only through close contact[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/03/us/understanding-the-risks-of-ebola-and-what-direct-contact-means.html] with someone who is already sick and showing signs like fever, or with infected bodily fluids.

Across the country, interviews with nearly four dozen parents, air travelers, health care workers and others showed an often-nuanced response to a disease that has saturated television news, social media and conversations. While some expressed concerns, others said they had little fear that Ebola would become a nationwide outbreak, and even less about their own health.

In Fort Worth, Russell Page, the father of a 5-year-old kindergartner at Lake Pointe Elementary, said he was more worried about people overreacting, hoarding supplies and “doing dumb things.” But after school officials ordered janitors to do a high-grade overnight cleaning because the father of a student had been on a flight with Ms. Vinson, Mr. Page decided to keep his child home.

“Everybody is concerned and wondering how it will affect their children,” Mr. Page said. “The district is doing the best they can. It’s new territory for everyone involved.”

David James, a recruiter in Louisville, Ky., said he had gotten a call from his 91-year-old godmother urging him not to board a flight for a vacation in Argentina. Mr. James, like others, was anxious, though not nearly enough to cancel his travel plans. His confidence seemed to be reflected so far by a lack of cancellations of airline bookings.

People said they were taking small precautions — fewer handshakes, more hand-washing — but not altering their lives to avoid a disease they stand almost no chance of contracting. Sean Riley, a teacher in Los Angeles, said he was paying attention to students with flulike symptoms. In Boston, Katie Couto, a student at Suffolk University, said she was carrying hand sanitizer everywhere and increasing her vitamin intake, hoping it would strengthen her immune system.

Still, she added, “I don’t lose sleep over this.”

Michael Nunn, 66, a retired social worker in Traverse City, Mich., said the news of Ms. Vinson’s travels had prompted him to avoid planes for a while. He plans to drive the more than 2,000 miles to Los Angeles for Christmas instead of flying.

And in New York, where a possible case — later determined not to be Ebola[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/nyregion/yale-graduate-student-with-ebola-like-symptoms.html] — at Yale University in Connecticut added some unease to the day, a package-delivery messenger named David Evans said that on a worry scale of 1 to 10, “I’m about an eight and a half right now.” He said that he handled packages from unknown locations, and that he had no way to know who had touched them or where their contents originated.

As the revelations about Ms. Vinson’s travels raised anxieties, at least six schools in Texas and Ohio said they were shutting their doors because students or staff members had been on Ms. Vinson’s flight, or had flown on the same plane after she had. In Akron, Ohio, the Resnik Community Learning Center was closed for cleaning until Monday because a student’s parent had spent time with Ms. Vinson, school officials said.

“This is panic,” said Dr. Paul A. Offit, chief of the infectious diseases division and director of the Vaccine Education Center at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. “This reminds me of the early days of AIDS, when people were afraid to walk into a grocery store and pick up a piece of fruit because they didn’t know who’d touched it. This doesn’t follow the epidemiology of the disease. This isn’t flu or smallpox. It’s not spread by droplet transmission. As long as nobody kissed the person on the plane, they’re safe.”

Thomas W. Skinner, a spokesman for the C.D.C., said that there was no known medical reason for closings, and that the agency had not advised any school to shut its doors.

Nevertheless, officials who closed facilities or asked workers to stay off the job said they were trying to calm public fears, not inflame them. In statement after statement, they said Thursday that they were acting “out of an abundance of caution.”

In Dallas, in response to the fears stirred by Ms. Vinson’s air travel, county officials asked the more than 70 health care workers at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital being monitored for Ebola symptoms to voluntarily avoid public places and transportation during the virus’s 21-day maximum incubation period. State and county officials have drawn up written agreements that appear to effectively limit the workers to staying home.

Until Ms. Pham fell ill and officials stepped up efforts to watch health care workers, Ms. Vinson and others at Presbyterian had been under a self-monitoring regimen. Ms. Vinson had been checking her temperature twice a day, but there had been no restrictions on her travel.

Public-health experts have criticized the C.D.C. for not putting all of the hospital workers who had contact with Mr. Duncan under intensive monitoring, as opposed to the more loosely followed self-monitoring regimen.

Even as federal health officials widened their efforts to find travelers who had been on Ms. Vinson’s flights, one of those passengers, Byron Watters, said he had initially been frustrated in his efforts to reach local and federal officials. He said he had called a C.D.C. hotline repeatedly but had been unable to find answers about what to do, and had then called Dallas officials.

“They said I’m not supposed to call that number and to call the C.D.C. I call the C.D.C., and I can’t get someone on the phone,” Mr. Watters said. “When I do get someone on the phone, I get disconnected.”

He said that a friend had eventually helped him reach C.D.C. officials, and that they had told him he was at low risk for exposure. Still, he said he and his wife, Tiffany Bramwell-Watters, planned to stay home for 21 days.

“I don’t think there’s anything,” Ms. Bramwell-Watters said, “but we just wanted to make sure that we took the correct precautions and measures.”

Jack Healy reported from Dallas, Sabrina Tavernise from Washington and Abby Goodnough from Louisville, Ky. Reporting was contributed by Kevin Sack, Manny Fernandez, Frances Robles and David Montgomery from Dallas; Ian Lovett from Los Angeles; Alan Blinder from Atlanta; Jess Bidgood from Boston; Jad Mouawad, Timothy Williams, Tatiana Schlossberg and Donald G. McNeil Jr. from New York; and Michael D. Shear from Washington.

Correction: October 21, 2014, Tuesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about the possibility that President Obama would appoint an Ebola czar to manage the government’s response to the virus misstated the number of people who have contracted the disease in the United States. It is two, not three. (Two Dallas nurses, Nina Pham and Amber Joy Vinson, contracted the disease in the United States; Thomas Eric Duncan was diagnosed with the disease while in this country but was infected in Liberia.)

* White House Takes Drop-Everything Approach to Respond to Public Health Crisis[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/us/white-house-takes-drop-everything-approach-to-respond-to-public-health-crisis.html]

* Controls Poor in Dallas, Nurse Says[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/us/controls-poor-at-hospital-nurse-says.html]

* In Cities With West African Populations, Hospitals Take Extra Steps[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/health/in-cities-with-west-african-populations-hospitals-and-residents-gear-up-for-ebola.html]

* For Ebola Health Workers, Risks and Duty Collide[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/us/out-on-the-front-lines-risks-and-duty-collide.html]

Jeff Hulbert of Annapolis, Md., protesting Thursday by the White House against flights from West Africa, was a tourist attraction. | Mladen Antonov/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images | In Oakland, Calif., the Registered Nurses Response Network protested what it said was a lack of cooperation and preparedness for future Ebola cases nationwide. | Nate Pesce | Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the C.D.C. director, at a congressional hearing on Thursday. | Jabin Botsford/The New York Times | Sparta Elementary School in Belton, Tex., was one of a number of schools in Texas and Ohio closed because students or faculty had flown with an Ebola patient. | Ilana Panich-Linsman for The New York Times | Mayor David Kline of Tallmadge, Ohio, where the second Dallas nurse to contract Ebola spent the weekend, talks about safety precautions.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141016eaah002gx


World; Europe
Bloc in Europe Starts to Balk Over Austerity
By JIM YARDLEY and JACK EWING
1361 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
MILAN — With Europe once again rattling global markets, many of the largest European countries are now rebelling against the German gospel of belt-tightening and demanding more radical steps to reverse their slumping fortunes.

One after another, European leaders arrived in Milan on Thursday for a summit meeting with their Asian counterparts, smiling for photographs despite gloomy financial news this week of stock markets tumbling and borrowing costs shooting up, especially in Greece, evoking memories of the euro crisis two years ago.

In past years, however, the eurozone nations buckled under to German demands to slash budget deficits and roll back public services, and then watched in dismay as unemployment rates shot into the double digits and growth collapsed. Now, France, Italy and the European Central Bank [http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/e/european_central_bank/index.html?inline=nyt-org] have coalesced into a bloc against Chancellor Angela Merkel [http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/m/angela_merkel/index.html?inline=nyt-per] of Germany [http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/germany/index.html?inline=nyt-geo], and they are insisting that Berlin change course.

“We need to show that Europe is capable of investing in growth, and not only in rigor and austerity,” said the Italian prime minister, Matteo Renzi, speaking to reporters outside the conference center after presiding over the opening of the meeting. He described the international financial situation as “very delicate” and said Europe had still not earned the confidence of international markets.

“As the I.M.F. has said,” he said, referring to the International Monetary Fund, “we need to focus on growth.”

The divisions between Europe’s leaders, at a moment when unity would seem critical, is one reason the markets are rattled — as well as the fact that policy makers still have not found a tool to revive growth in the face of staggering public debt.

The prospect of another European financial crisis [http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/european_sovereign_debt_crisis/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] can only bring an unwanted sense of discomfort for Washington and the rest of the world, given that China’s economy is slowing, the American recovery remains fragile and the Ukrainian crisis remains unresolved. Financial investors who had seemingly forgotten about the European crises in 2008 and 2010 now again seem worried about the Continent’s persistent lack of growth and the prospect of falling into a deflationary trap.

“It is the third phase of the crisis,” said François Godement, an analyst at the European Council on Foreign Relations, a research organization.

Politically and economically, Europe’s central country remains Germany and its central figure remains Ms. Merkel, backed by Jens Weidmann, the head of the German central bank and long an advocate of monetary and fiscal discipline. Germany is the eurozone’s biggest economic force, but it is now stumbling — even as its role as enforcer of austerity has made it a focus of fear, loathing and blame from some other European powers.

France, which has in modern times been Germany’s indispensable partner in European crisis management, is now in near revolt, and President François Hollande [http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/h/francois_hollande/index.html?inline=nyt-per] has joined forces with Mr. Renzi, who has presented an expansionary 2015 budget that will cut taxes despite pressure from Brussels to meet deficit targets.

Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, has pressed Germany to temper its insistence on budgetary discipline and to spend more on public works to stimulate the eurozone economy. The French have cheered him on. German leaders have resisted, while making clear their opposition to the more powerful stimulus measures that analysts expect the European Central Bank to deploy soon.

Mr. Weidmann has become increasingly alienated from other members of the European Central Bank’s governing council in his refusal to countenance large-scale purchases of government bonds, the kind of stimulus that the Federal Reserve used to help revive the United States economy. Mr. Weidmann speaks for a large swath of the German public, and was once a close adviser to Ms. Merkel.

The political standoff has rattled international investors, who fear that European leaders are further apart than ever on how to pull the region’s economy out of its long slump — and that the European Central Bank will not have the freedom it needs to take the extraordinary measures needed to stave off another crisis.

“German resistance against the E.C.B. pursuing more aggressive policy is one of the things spooking markets,” said Holger Schmieding, chief economist in London at Berenberg, a German bank.

Ms. Merkel, for the moment, is showing the same inflexibility with her European partners as she has in earlier confrontations over eurozone policies.

Before arriving in Milan, Ms. Merkel rejected any moves to loosen fiscal policy, including French requests for more flexibility on meeting deficit-reduction targets. Yet even in Germany, corporate leaders are growing frustrated that policy makers do not have answers amid persistent fears of deflation and concerns that the global economy is deteriorating.

“The private sector in Germany has the feeling the government is not doing the right things,” said Nicola Leibinger-Kammüller, chief executive of Trumpf, a German maker of machinery that uses lasers to cut metal.

The stock market rout that began Wednesday reflected a culmination of factors, including growing pessimism about Japanese and Chinese growth, the Ebola [http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] epidemic and conflict in the Middle East and Ukraine. But even after European and United States stock markets calmed on Thursday, investors registered their fear of a renewed crisis in the eurozone.

Greece’s long-term borrowing costs rose to nearly 9 percent, from 7 percent on Wednesday, to reach the highest level since January. In a pattern that raised uncomfortable memories of the dark days of 2010, the bond sell-off in Greece quickly spread to other nations with debt and growth problems, including Portugal, Spain, Italy, and even Ireland.

Europe has already endured years of stagnation, high unemployment and a mounting public disillusionment that has fueled a political backlash, with right-wing, Euro-skeptic parties steadily gathering strength. In France, Mr. Hollande is suffering from rock-bottom poll numbers, while the right-wing National Front has gained ground. In Italy, Mr. Renzi remains popular, but anti-austerity sentiment is strong, especially resentment over budget cuts and a lack of growth.

One of the reasons Mr. Renzi stepped out of the meeting to speak on Thursday afternoon was to address complaints from regional governments in Italy that have seen their budgets cut. “If Italy wants to restart, and we will restart it, we need to reduce the waste,” he said. “Italian families have already done it. It’s now the turn of regional council members and representatives.”

Ms. Merkel faces opposite pressures in Germany, as the more the European Central Bank does to head off deflation and to stimulate the economy, the greater risk of a backlash among fiscal conservatives in Germany.

While Germans who want to scrap the euro currency union remain a minority, their numbers appear to be growing. Support for Alternative for Deutschland [http://www.nytimes.com/2013/04/15/world/europe/elites-flock-to-anti-euro-party-alternative-for-germany.html], an anti-euro party founded in Germany less than two years ago, rose sharply in recent state elections and represents 8 percent of the electorate nationwide, according to recent polls.

The party has drained votes from the Christian Democratic Union party of Ms. Merkel, a development that has probably encouraged her to take a hard line toward France after the French government said it would breach eurozone limits on national spending in an effort to stimulate the French economy.

Yet there are small signs that a European reconciliation could be possible. The finance ministers of France and Germany will meet in Berlin on Monday to try to reassure citizens that they can continue to work together. And even as Ms. Merkel said on Thursday that there could be no exceptions to European Union rules on national deficit targets, according to Reuters, she had previously hinted at some wiggle room.

During a recent speech to Parliament, she did not rule out measures to increase growth that would not conflict with her aim of achieving a balanced budget.

Jim Yardley reported from Milan, and Jack Ewing from Frankfurt. Gaia Pianigiani contributed reporting from Milan.

François Hollande of France and Angela Merkel of Germany on Thursday at a meeting of European and Asian heads of state. | Olivier Morin/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141017eaah000gu


edit
Still pondering U.S.-Cuba relations, Fidel Castro replies; Editorial Observer
By ERNESTO LONDOÑO
802 words
17 October 2014
International New York Times
INHT
8
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Fidel Castro, who was once omnipresent in state media and notorious for delivering hourslong speeches in packed halls, has largely vanished from public view in Cuba. But the 88-year-old former president has not altogether abandoned the business of telling Cubans what to think since he handed the reins of power in 2008 to his brother, Raúl.

Cuba’s state-run newspaper, Granma, regularly publishes columns under the byline of the former president that tackle current events and seek to burnish the fading allure of the Cuban revolution that brought him to power in 1959.

On Tuesday, Mr. Castro dedicated a column to an editorial published in The Times on Sunday that called on the Obama administration to restore diplomatic ties with the Cuban government and end the counterproductive embargo the United States has imposed on the island for decades. His take was remarkable for one main reason: By quoting nearly every paragraph in the editorial, he amplified the reach of an article that included significant criticism of the Cuban government. Cuba has one of the lowest Internet penetration rates in the world, which keeps critical views of the government from circulating widely.

Hosts of state-run radio stations read Mr. Castro’s column and discussed its content, which was a rare instance of the government’s leaders allowing the state’s tightly controlled media to discuss sensitive subjects, including political prisoners and the suspicious death of a political activist.

Mr. Castro’s column was published on page 2 of Tuesday’s print edition of Granma, its importance flagged by a large front-page headline promoting the column. He appeared to endorse the thrust of the editorial, comparing it to an interview he gave in 1957 as a young rebel leader to a Times foreign correspondent at the time, Herbert Matthews, to refute claims that he had been killed in action.

It is unclear the extent to which Mr. Castro, who has been in failing health for years, still calls the shots in Cuba. There are hard-liners in the country who view rapprochement with the United States as a dangerous gamble that should be undertaken only gradually. But by presenting the argument to a wide audience, Mr. Castro seemed eager to telegraph the message that lower-level Cuban officials have been conveying to their American counterparts in recent years: Let’s talk.

Mr. Castro excerpted without comment portions of the editorial that described the dismal state of the Cuban economy and the recent, halting economic reforms the government undertook to wean the nation from dependence on its troubled benefactor, Venezuela. Remarkably, Mr. Castro also included criticism of the Castro regime as an ‘‘authoritarian government’’ that harasses and detains dissidents.

He took strong exception to one point about Cuba’s failure to explain the suspicious death of the political activist Oswaldo Payá. Many suspect Mr. Payá was killed by security forces. Mr. Castro called the reference in the editorial ‘‘slanderous and gratuitous.’’

Still, Mr. Castro seemed quite pleased to note that deeper engagement with the United States could unlock the potential of one of the hemisphere’s most educated societies (using four exclamation marks). Cuba’s state-run universities have produced one of the most literate societies in the region and the country routinely dispatches its doctors to assist in global crises. ‘‘This is indeed recognition,’’ Mr. Castro said.

Jaime Suchlicki, a Cuba expert at the University of Miami, said the column appeared to represent an effort by the government to show that it has become more open to criticism. ‘‘They’re trying to show that they’re more liberal,’’ he said, arguing that the gesture should be seen with skepticism.

The website of Yoani Sánchez, a popular Cuban blogger, who is among the government’s most high-profile critics, published a lengthy article on the issue on Tuesday. It argued that a closer relationship with the United States would likely help and empower Cubans. Interestingly, the article portrayed Mr. Castro as the leader of the old guard that has been holding back his brother from improving relations with the United States.

Mr. Castro suggested that the United States could benefit from expanded cooperation with Cuba particularly in areas like climate change, commerce and arms control. He also made a reference to the global effort to prevent the Ebola virus from spreading further, in which Cuban doctors are playing a leading role.

His closing line noted that the United Nations will soon vote on whether the United States embargo on Cuba is a sound policy. The annual, nonbinding vote is always an embarrassment for Washington. Last year, only Israel voted with the United States.

For the Spanish version of this article, visit www.nytimes.com/opinion[http://www.nytimes.com/opinion]

International Herald Tribune

Document INHT000020141016eaah00035


news
E.U. studies ways to contain Ebola; Possible new cases arise in Europe; health officials are grilled in Washington
By SABRINA TAVERNISE and TIMOTHY WILLIAMS
1132 words
17 October 2014
International New York Times
INHT
7
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
More possible new cases of Ebola emerged in Europe on Thursday, increasing concern that measures to contain the spread of the disease have been insufficient, as health officials in the United States faced withering questions from Congress that thrust the government’s response to the outbreak squarely into a national election season.

In Europe, an Air France flight was isolated at the Madrid airport when a passenger developed fever and chills; the authorities in France and Spain were investigating several suspected cases of Ebola, and European health ministers convened in Brussels to consider further steps amid heightened fears that measures taken so far have been insufficient.

None of the new cases in Europe — one in France, three in Spain — have been confirmed. The case in France, if it is confirmed, would be the first instance of Ebola infecting someone through transmission on French soil. A Spanish nurse was infected by a patient she was treating in Madrid.

Concerns had grown in the United States after health authorities there said on Wednesday that a nurse from the Dallas hospital where the country’s first Ebola patient was diagnosed had flown commercially from Cleveland a day before she was found to have the disease. President Obama cleared his schedule to work on a more aggressive governmental response.

In Ohio, where the infected nurse, Amber Vinson, had visited family members, two schools in a Cleveland suburb were closed on Thursday because an employee might have traveled later on the same Frontier Airlines plane, Reuters reported. Frontier placed six crew members on paid leave ‘‘out of an abundance of caution.’’

Because Ms. Vinson did not have a fever and did not have nausea or vomit on the plane, the risk ‘‘to any around that individual on the plane would have been extremely low,’’ Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the director of the Centers for Disease Control, told reporters.

But on Thursday he faced tough questioning from skeptical members of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, who demanded to know how Ms. Vinson and another nurse in Dallas could have been infected despite an array of protective measures and how Ms. Vinson was allowed to fly when she was being monitored after treating a Liberian patient, Thomas Eric Duncan, who later died of Ebola.

Dr. Frieden sought to reassure lawmakers that the country was equipped to contain the Ebola outbreak in the United States, saying, ‘‘Our top priority, our focus is to work 24/7 to protect Americans.’’

But Representative Tim Murphy, a Republican from Pennsylvania, was harshly critical of the government’s public health response to Ebola.

‘‘Mistakes have been made,’’ he said. ‘‘Trust and credibility of the administration and government are waning.’’

And Representative Fred Upton, Republican of Michigan, repeated calls for a travel ban from the affected countries, something that Dr. Frieden and other public health officials have said would be counterproductive, limiting the outside world’s ability to help stricken parts of West Africa.

‘‘People are scared,’’ Mr. Upton said. ‘‘We need all hands on deck. We need a strategy.’’

Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told the committee that Nina Pham, the first nurse to be infected in Dallas, would be transferred Thursday from Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital to a specialized unit at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md.

The N.I.H. said in a statement that Ms. Pham was being admitted at the request of the Dallas hospital. The facility’s Special Clinical Studies Unit is designed to provide high-level isolation capabilities for Ebola patients.

Dr. Frieden, like Mr. Obama, has attempted to strike a delicate balance between informing the public and keeping it from panicking. And on Thursday, he mixed words of caution and concern.

‘‘We remain confident that Ebola is not a significant public health threat to the United States,’’ he told members of the House committee. ‘‘It is not transmitted easily and it does not spread from people who are not ill.’’

But he also acknowledged that this is ‘‘the biggest and most complex Ebola challenge the world has ever faced,’’ and said he believed the 8,997 known cases and 4,493 deaths reported as of last week, nearly all in West Africa, were ‘‘substantially under-reported.’’

The Dallas cases have exposed weaknesses in the ability of American hospitals to deal with Ebola, and left Dr. Frieden — who is described as a perfectionist, a workaholic and a visionary — struggling to maintain his credibility. For days, he has presented what he hopes has been a calming account about the ability to contain Ebola.

But events in the United States and Europe have punched holes in his reassuring narrative.

The three Spanish patients, their diagnoses not yet confirmed, were taken to the Carlos III hospital in Madrid. One was a Nigerian passenger on an Air France flight from Paris that landed at Madrid’s Barajas airport Thursday.

Health Minister Ana Matos said airport authorities put in place an emergency plan after the pilots informed them that the Nigerian passenger showed signs of fever. The plane’s other passengers were evacuated and the plane was grounded in an isolated section of the airport.

Also moved to Carlos III on Thursday was a nurse who reportedly was part of the team on the ambulance that took María Teresa Romero Ramos to the hospital earlier this month, hospital officials said. Ms. Romero, an auxiliary nurse, was the first person to test positive for Ebola in Europe. Ms. Romero, who tended a priest who had been flown back from West Africa for treatment, remains in serious condition but is improving, according to hospital officials. She is one of 15 people quarantined in the hospital.

A third new case is that of another priest who was part of the same religious order as the two others who died of Ebola in the Madrid hospital, according to hospital officials on Thursday.

French media reports said a nurse suffering from intense fever and suspected of being infected with Ebola was transported to a military hospital near Paris on Thursday. The hospital is one of 12 in France where the authorities have set up special units to treat Ebola cases.

European Union health ministers were summoned to an emergency meeting in Brussels on Thursday, but they reached no agreement on screening passengers arriving in their countries, leaving the decision to individual countries.

France said on Wednesday that it would start screening air passengers for Ebola if they arrived on flights from the African region hardest hit by the disease, following similar decisions by Britain and the Czech Republic.

International Herald Tribune

Document INHT000020141017eaah0002u


Public Health
The Upshot
The Partisan Divide on Ebola Preparedness
By BRENDAN NYHAN
470 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
After a second case of Ebola [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/us/ebola-outbreak-texas.html] was discovered among the staff of a Dallas hospital that treated an infected patient, public concerns are likely to increase about whether the United States health care system can properly respond to an outbreak.

Data from surveys suggest, however, that those views — like so many others [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/05/31/upshot/how-old-is-too-old-for-president-depends-whos-running.html?abt=0002&abg=0] — are being shaped by people’s partisan affilations as much as by news about the outbreak itself.

According to a new ABC News/Washington Post survey [http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/ebola-poll-two-thirds-of-americans-worried-about-possible-widespread-epidemic-in-us/2014/10/13/d0afd0ee-52ff-11e4-809b-8cc0a295c773_story.html], only 54 percent of Republicans are confident in the federal government’s ability to respond effectively to Ebola — far fewer than the 76 percent of Democrats who expressed confidence. This finding represents a striking reversal from the partisan divide found in a question about a potential avian influenza [http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/avian-influenza/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] outbreak in 2006, when a Republican, George W. Bush, was president. An ABC/Post poll taken at the time found that 72 percent of Republicans were confident in an effective federal response compared with only 52 percent of Democrats.

The partisan divide also appears to have grown as Republican disapproval of President Obama has deepened. During the H1N1 “ swine flu [http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/i/influenza/swine_influenza/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier]” pandemic in 2009, the first year of Mr. Obama’s presidency, 81 percent of Democrats were confident in the federal government response to the disease compared with 70 percent of Republicans — a narrower margin than we observe during the current outbreak.

These findings illustrate how people use simple partisan heuristics to make judgments about future government performance. Few people know about how the federal government responds to disease epidemics, but most people have views about President Obama and the job he is doing in office. That’s why Democrats are more confident in government’s capacity for an effective response than they were in 2006, for example, not because they approve of how the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is being managed.

Given these patterns, fears about the Ebola response will continue to be disproportionately concentrated among Republicans — the partisans who are likely to be most receptive to criticism of the Obama administration [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/11/upshot/the-unhealthy-politics-of-ebola.html?abt=0002&abg=0] for its handling of the issue. But if President Marco Rubio or Chris Christie takes over, look for Democrats to be the ones doubting the government again during the next big outbreak.

The Upshot [http://www.nytimes.com/upshot/] provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and everyday life. Follow us on Facebook [https://www.facebook.com/upshot] and Twitter [http://twitter.com/UpshotNYT].

Brendan Nyhan is an assistant professor of government at Dartmouth College. Follow him on Twitter at @BrendanNyhan.

A scene from a training course on Ebola preparedness. The three-day course, operated by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and held at an old Army base in Anniston, Ala., will provide instruction to about 40 health care workers a week through January. | Tami Chappell/Reuters

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141016eaah001p6


Update
Travel
The Latest on Ebola and Travel
1680 words
17 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The international response to the West African Ebola outbreak has affected travel by air, rail and cruise ship. And the news that a nurse who contracted Ebola while treating its first casualty in the United States flew commercially and another employee who was not infected was aboard a cruise ship has stoked fears that it could spread here.

Here is a guide to how the travel industry and the government has responded.

Are people potentially exposed to the virus allowed to travel?

There is no travel ban in effect. However, s [http://www.cdc.gov.proxy.bc.edu/vhf/ebola/hcp/monitoring-and-movement-of-persons-with-exposure.html]ince two nurses at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital, where the first Ebola victim in the United States died, were diagnosed with Ebola in the past two weeks, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has stepped up efforts to monitor other hospital employees who may have been exposed to the virus. It now has asked that staff involved in treating Michael Eric Duncan, the Liberian who died of Ebola in Texas, avoid public spaces [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/18/us/ebola-cruise-ship-dallas.html?hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&version=LedeSum&module=first-column-region®ion=top-news&WT.nav=top-news]. One infected nurse traveled from Dallas to Cleveland and back again on a commercial flight, resulting in the closure of public schools in both Texas and Ohio. Another employee, a lab supervisor who may have had contact with specimens of the virus, was found to be aboard the Carnival Magic, a commercial cruise ship currently in waters near Belize, the State Department said Friday.

The employee and her traveling partner, who have not been named, are in voluntary isolation in a cabin aboard the ship and were reported by a physician onboard to be in good health, Roger Frizzell, a spokesman from Carnival said. The C.D.C. notified Carnival of the passenger on Wednesday, according to a statement from the cruise line. The Magic departed Galveston, Tex., on Oct. 12 and will return on Oct. 19.

A statement from Carnival said: “At no point in time has the individual exhibited any symptoms or signs of infection and it has been 19 days since she was in the lab with the testing samples. She is deemed by the C.D.C. to be very low risk. At this time, the guest remains in isolation on board the ship and is not deemed to be a risk to any guests or crew. It is important to reiterate that the individual has no symptoms and has been isolated in an extreme abundance of caution. We are in close contact with the C.D.C. and at this time it has been determined that the appropriate course of action is to simply keep the guest in isolation on board.”

Additionally, Carnival said in the statement, any passenger sailing with the line must answer a series of health screening questions during embarkation and any guest or crew member who has visited or traveled through Liberia, Sierra Leone or Guinea within 21 days of a cruise departure date will be denied boarding.

Can you get Ebola by sharing a flight with someone who is infected?

It’s not likely. The disease is spread through direct contact with the bodily fluids [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/03/us/understanding-the-risks-of-ebola-and-what-direct-contact-means.html] — blood, vomit, urine, diarrhea — of a contagious person, and those people are unlikely to feel well enough to fly. And in one case in which a passenger who was vomiting from the illness did fly from Monrovia to Lagos [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/01/health/ebola-outbreak-in-nigeria-appears-to-be-over.html]in late July, none of the roughly 200 people on his flight fell ill.

How are air travelers being screened in the United States?

Enhanced screening measures [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/09/us/us-to-begin-ebola-screenings-at-5-airports.html?emc=edit_na_20141008&nlid=57704672] are in effect at five major hubs for passengers arriving from Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, including temperature checks and detailed questioning on arrival.

The screenings are taking place at Kennedy Airport in New York, [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/12/nyregion/in-us-screening-for-ebola-jfk-is-on-front-lines.html]Washington Dulles International, O’Hare International, Hartsfield-Jackson International and Newark Liberty International. Passengers will also undergo detailed questioning upon their arrival.

Passengers at other points of entry will continue to be screened by customs agents, who examine travelers for visible signs of illness and distribute fact sheets to those who have traveled in West African nations affected by the outbreak. In addition, the T.S.A. is providing guidance to airlines on how to identify passengers who are ill.

Are passengers being screened elsewhere?

The broader E.U. said that it would look into whether screening at points of origin in West Africa is sufficient [http://www.reuters.com/article/2014/10/15/us-health-ebola-eu-airports-idUSKCN0I41R220141015] Reuters reported, and that if not, it would strengthen that process. It also plans to better coordinate screening at some airports within the union.

Britain [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/10/world/europe/britain-to-screen-for-ebola-amid-possible-new-cases-in-europe-.html]has begun screening travelers from affected West African countries [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/10/world/europe/britain-to-screen-for-ebola-amid-possible-new-cases-in-europe-.html] at Heathrow Airport in London and plans to also do so at Gatwick and Eurostar terminals. And France has announced that it would screen air passengers at Charles de Gaulle in Paris, according to The Associated Press.

Screenings are also taking place at Canadian airports [http://news.gc.ca.proxy.bc.edu/web/article-en.do?mthd=tp&crtr.page=1&nid=893619&crtr.tp1D=980] and at Cairo’s as people return from Haj [http://www.nytimes.com/video/multimedia/100000003174016/pilgrims-return-from-haj-to-heightened-ebola-screenings.html?playlistId=1194811622186].

People departing the West African countries hit hardest by the outbreak are screened before they fly [http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2014/10/06/fact-sheet-us-response-ebola-epidemic-west-africa]. They must fill out a health questionnaire and undergo a visual assessment and a temperature check by a noncontact thermometer.

Are there plans for a travel ban from West Africa?

A few officials, including House Speaker John A. Boehner [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/us/ebola-outbreak-texas.html], have suggested banning [http://www.nola.com/politics/index.ssf/2014/10/bobby_jindal_calls_for_restric.html]flights to and from affected countries [http://www.nola.com/politics/index.ssf/2014/10/bobby_jindal_calls_for_restric.html], but the Obama administration has so far dismissed the idea, saying that a ban could slow the flow of aid there. Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, has said [http://www.cdc.gov.proxy.bc.edu/media/releases/2014/t1004-ebola-confirmed-case.html] that restricting travel to affected nations could drive traffic into other parts of Africa, making it even harder to contain and eliminate the virus. Several cruise lines have voluntarily altered their routes [http://intransit.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/10/09/cruise-lines-to-avoid-west-african-coast/?ref=travel] to avoid the West African coast.

Are carriers still operating flights to affected nations?

Some international airlines, including British Airways and Kenya Airways, have suspended flights since August. But others, including Royal Air Maroc, have regularly scheduled departures to destinations in West Africa. Keep in mind that the C.D.C. has advised avoiding nonessential travel [http://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/diseases/ebola] to Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.

What are air carriers doing?

Airlines follow general guidelines issued by the C.D.C. and the World Health Organization. They have also informed their flight attendants about the hazards of Ebola, its symptoms and how the disease is spread.

The C.D.C. has asked United States airlines and international airlines with direct flights to or from the United States to begin asking any sick passenger if they had traveled to Guinea, Liberia or Sierra Leone in the past 21 days. If the answer is yes and the passenger is exhibiting symptoms of Ebola specifically, the airline must report the incident immediately to the C.D.C. and follow the agency’s infection control guidelines, according to the agency’s Ebola Guidance for Airlines advisory. [http://www.cdc.gov.proxy.bc.edu/quarantine/air/managing-sick-travelers/ebola-guidance-airlines.html]

In general, the guidelines call for flight crews to take steps to protect themselves as well as other passengers, including washing their hands often and thoroughly, wearing waterproof gloves and face masks when dealing with a sick passenger and treating any and all bodily fluids as if they were contagious. Sick passengers are also advised to wear a face mask, unless they are nauseated or vomiting.

To minimize exposure, the C.D.C. also advises isolating sick passengers as much as possible and minimizing crew and passenger interactions with them.

Strict cleaning procedures are also outlined for in-flight and ground crews, both of which are instructed to wear personal protective equipment like aprons, goggles and other gear typically included in a Universal Precaution Kit, which the International Civil Aviation Organization [http://www.icao.int/MID/Documents/2013/capsca-mid3/ICAOHealthRelatedSARPsandguidelines.pdf] has recommended all airlines traveling to countries affected with Ebola carry.

Plastic bags are to be used to dispose of tissues and any other waste that might have been used to clean the area in which the passenger is seated, and then must be sealed tightly, much as a hospital does with biohazards. Once on the ground, any soiled area of the plane that cannot be thoroughly disinfected is to be removed, according to the C.D.C.

If a flight attendant becomes sick mid-flight, they are required to stop work immediately and isolate themselves.

Airlines are working closely with the C.D.C. and the Department of Homeland Security to mitigate risk to the traveling public and airline employees, as they have done in the past during SARS and H1N1 Virus outbreaks, Jean Medina, a spokeswoman for Airlines For America, the trade group for major airlines, said in an email. Crew members have been trained in the C.D.C.'s infection control procedures and all members of the group carry Universal Precaution Kits aboard their planes, she confirmed.

Flight attendants have been trained to passively screen passengers for several types of illnesses, she continued. “Once someone does appear to have symptoms, airlines have had the ability to directly connect with medical experts midflight to consult on whether there is an actual concern about Ebola. This includes connecting with the C.D.C. emergency operations center.”

Should that rare situation occur, she said, airlines are instructed to do everything they can to isolate the passenger to the best extent possible, while also complying with all F.A.A. safety rules, including having all passengers remain in their seats. Some aircrafts, however, may have a configuration that allows for a passenger to be seated in a less-crowded section of the plane or to be seated away from others.

“While we understand there is heightened concern, it’s important to remember that this is not an airborne disease, nor is it easily transmittable, particularly when common hygiene precautions are followed,” Ms. Medina said. “The C.D.C. has consistently noted that there is virtually no risk to air travelers, no matter where you travel. There are screening procedures in place today in West Africa, in the United States and in Europe, and airlines have always had the authority, as granted by Congress, to restrict passengers whose travel might cause harm to themselves or others.”

Reporting by Rachel Lee Harris, Emily Brennan and Nicola Clark.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141017eaah003h3


Foreign Desk; SECT
U.N. Rights Chief Warns Against Anti-African Discrimination Over Ebola
By NICK CUMMING-BRUCE
922 words
17 October 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
The New York Times on the Web
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
GENEVA -- The new United Nations human rights chief expressed alarm on Thursday over anti-African prejudices arising from the Ebola crisis, warning against what he described as ill-conceived quarantine enforcements and discriminatory travel restrictions.

In his first news conference since formally taking over the job on Sept. 1, the high commissioner for human rights, Zeid Ra'ad al-Hussein, also voiced dismay over a severe shortage of funds for his agency's work, which he said could force him to cut back at a time of growing demand from governments for its support.

''I have to say I am shocked, shocked that just six weeks into the job I am already having to look at making cuts because of our current financial situation,'' Mr. Zeid said. ''Our operations are stretched to breaking point in a world that seems to be lurching from crisis to ever more dangerous crisis.''

At a time when the United States and Europe are growing increasingly alarmed about the spread of Ebola from West Africa and seeking ways to minimize it, Mr. Zeid admonished against restrictive actions, including criminal penalties, that he said could have the opposite effect.

''Only a response that is built on respect for human rights will be successful in quashing the epidemic,'' he said.

''We must also beware of 'us' and 'them,' a mentality that locks people into rigid identity groups and reduces all Africans -- or all West Africans, or some smaller, national or local group -- to a stereotype.''

As the global response to the crisis accelerates, he said, ''it is also vital that every person struck down with Ebola be treated with dignity, not stigmatized or cast out.''

He said his office was drafting guidelines on quarantining, because ''if imposed and enforced injudiciously, quarantine can very easily not only violate a wide range of human rights, but in so doing accelerate the spread of diseases like Ebola.''

Mr. Zeid identified Ebola and the onslaught by the Islamic State as ''twin plagues'' that had been allowed to fester by other nations that had misread their potential to cause huge losses of life and that thrived on neglect of human rights.

His office, which has an annual budget of $250 million, was continuously asked to monitor crises, investigate abuses and undertake the training of officials and security forces to prevent human rights violations. Doing that with the resources provided by member states and facing a $25 million shortfall in funding this year was ''like being asked to use a bucket and a boat to cope with a flood,'' Mr. Zeid said.

His comments echoed aid agencies' increasingly strident calls for greater action by world powers to prevent crises that are similarly exhausting their financial and human resources.

Commissions documenting atrocities in Syria and North Korea are among six inquiry panels supported by the United Nations human rights office, more than ever, together with teams monitoring developments and documenting abuses in a number of crises, including Iraq and Ukraine. The office also had several requests to open or retain field offices and dozens of requests to deploy human rights advisers, which it feared it would be unable to fulfill, Mr. Zeid said.

Mr. Zeid said it was ''particularly painful'' that one of the first things he would have to do as the human rights chief was cut staff and programs. There is, he said, an ''extraordinary disconnect between what we are asked to do and what we are given to do it with.''

Although human rights ranks, along with security and development, as one of the three pillars of the United Nations, it receives just 3 percent of the budget, and this covered about one-third of its activities, Mr. Zeid said. The rest of its funding came from voluntary contributions, but these had not kept pace with the demands for action from governments. ''The office is stretched to the limit,'' he said. ''We are already paring back everything we can, and services are starting to suffer.''

As a point of comparison, he said, residents of Switzerland spent 10 times as much on chocolate last year as the annual amount the human rights office would receive from the United Nations budget this year and in 2015, he said.

"We are not asking for very much,'' Mr. Zeid said, contrasting his office's modest budget with the United Nations' $1.3 billion for security and $1.1 billion for development. He pointed out that a number of governments had proposed that the share of the budget should increase to 5 percent.

Financial reports by his office reveal enormous geographic disparities in the levels of financial support for the human rights office. Almost three-quarters of the voluntary contributions came from Western European countries last year, buoyed by hefty donations from the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden.

By contrast, 33 Latin American and Caribbean countries, which accounted for about one-third of the human rights office's spending on field offices in 2012 and 2013, contributed less than half a million dollars.

Wealthy Asian countries were also conspicuously modest contributors. Japan is one of the biggest contributors to the United Nations budget, but it gave less than $500,000 to the human rights office. Last year, piqued by the comments of the former high commissioner Navi Pillay about state secrets legislation, it withdrew the contribution. China gave $50,000, Singapore contributed $10,000, and Malaysia did not contribute at all.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141017eaah0007b


Patrick Chappatte
Opinion
The CDC’s Ebola Update
53 words
18 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The Centers for Disease Control informs the population of the various ways the disease can be transmitted.

Patrick Chappatte is an editorial cartoonist for The International New York Times. View more of his work, visit his Web site or follow him on Twitter.

Patrick Chappatte

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141017eaai001rx


Editorial Observer
Opinion
India's Public Health Crisis
335 words
18 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
An infected person travels from West Africa to India and seeks treatment at an underfinanced and overwhelmed public hospital. There, substandard treatment unleashes an Ebola pandemic. It’s the nightmare scenario set out by Peter Piot[http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/oct/04/ebola-zaire-peter-piot-outbreak], the British microbiologist who first identified the Ebola virus. About 45,000 Indians[http://in.reuters.com/article/2014/08/08/ebola-india-virus-west-africa-idINKBN0G80OA20140808] live in West Africa, and Indian trade[http://www.business-standard.com/article/news-ians/indian-healthcare-companies-tap-african-market-113092400481_1.html] with Nigeria, particularly in medical services and pharmaceuticals, has boomed.

However, India’s most troubling threat is not abroad, but at home: the crippled public health system. The nation spends less than 1 percent[http://www.ft.com/cms/s/38a119dc-c955-11e2-bb56-00144feab7de,Authorised=false.html?_i_location=http&] of its gross domestic product on public health care. There are only nine hospital beds[http://www.businessweek.com/printer/articles/27848-india-needs-doctors-nurses-and-health-insurance] per 10,000 in India, compared with 41 per 10,000 in China, and doctors, nurses and lab technicians are critically lacking.

The Indian government has already shown itself incapable of dealing with lethal viral diseases. As many as 80 percent of the 30 million Indians infected with dengue fever[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/08/world/asia/study-of-dengue-cases-in-india.html] every year never seek medical care or are turned away from hospitals whose beds are full. Ebola would quickly overwhelm such strained hospitals. The government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has promised[http://www.financialexpress.com/news/narendra-modi-govt-plans-usstyle-universal-healthcare-scheme/1265248] a universal health insurance plan inspired by the Affordable Care Act in the United States. This would help more people afford care but do little to plug the gaping holes in the system.

The government has set up screenings for Ebola at international airports and prepared isolation wards. And, so far, no cases have been found in India. The nation has also contributed[https://www.pminewyork.org/pages.php?id=2012] $12.5 million to contain the Ebola virus in West Africa and has pledged to use its expertise[http://zeenews.india.com/news/india/india-offers-cooperation-to-develop-affordable-ebola-drugs-vaccines_1482890.html] in producing low-cost drugs to develop an affordable vaccine.

But with the World Health Organization warning[http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/oct/14/who-new-ebola-cases-world-health-organisation] that Ebola infection rates could rise to 10,000 new victims a week by the end of the year in West Africa, and the fumbles dealing with Ebola in Spain and America, improving India’s public health system is a national emergency.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141017eaai0025t


edit
Editorial Cartoon
By CHAPPATTE
14 words
18 October 2014
International New York Times
INHT
9
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
There are even more reasons to worry about Ebola.

International Herald Tribune

Document INHT000020141017eaai00063


U.S.
Waste From Ebola Poses Challenge to Hospitals
By MICHAEL WINES
953 words
18 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
When the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/c/centers_for_disease_control_and_prevention/index.html?inline=nyt-org] assured the public this month that most American hospitals could treat cases of Ebola, it was technically correct. Hospitals routinely treat highly contagious diseases, and top-tier ones are extensively equipped to isolate patients who pose special risks.

But the infection over the past week of two Texas hospital workers [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/us/ebola-infected-dallas-health-worker-was-on-flight.html]betrayed what even many of the best hospitals lack: the ability to handle the tide of infectious waste that Ebola generates.

Ebola’s catastrophic course includes diarrhea, vomiting and hemorrhaging of blood, a combination difficult enough to contain in less-communicable illnesses. When they are highly contagious, disposing of the waste and cleaning up what is left behind require expertise and equipment that some specialists said are lacking even in highly regarded medical facilities.

Those shortcomings are compounded, they said, by surprising gaps in scientists’ knowledge about the Ebola virus itself, down to the time it can survive in different environments outside the body.

“The time for educating on these things is not when we’re in the midst of a crisis,” Paul D. Roepe, the co-director of Georgetown University’s Center for Infectious Disease, said in a telephone interview. “The time was years ago. Even with the billions we’ve spent preparing our health systems for this sort of scenario, we’re still so open to error.”

A handful of medical centers nationwide, including ones at Emory University and the University of Nebraska that treated the first Ebola cases in this country, are specially equipped and their staff members trained to address the challenges. But they are the exceptions.

Most hospitals do not have incinerators or the steam sterilizers called autoclaves with the capacity to handle large amounts of infectious waste. Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital, the 866-bed facility in Dallas where two nurses became ill after treating an Ebola patient, has had to pack and ship 55-gallon drums of waste — from body fluids to linens to contaminated protective suits to an entire hospital bed — to a Port Arthur, Tex., incinerator for disposal.

The federal Department of Transportation, which regulates hazardous waste shipments, was forced to issue special permits to move waste from the hospital and an Ebola victim’s apartment because the agency’s packaging requirements were not designed for such large volumes of highly infectious material.

Perhaps more important, some specialists said, is the lack of training and practice that hospital workers need to treat Ebola victims and safely handle the waste they produce.

Debra Sharpe, a Birmingham, Ala., biosafety expert, has overseen safety at a nonprofit laboratory that researches emerging diseases and bioweapons, and has run a company that trained workers to handle biological agents. The infectious waste problems in those jobs parallel those in hospital settings, she said in an interview.

“It’s totally shocking,” Ms. Sharpe said. “It would take me anywhere from four to six weeks to train an employee to work in a high containment lab in a safe manner. It’s ludicrous to expect doctors and nurses to figure that out with a day’s worth of training.

“None of the science is new; none of the protection components are new. It’s just new in a health care setting. Hospitals and the C.D.C. should have been reaching out to the biosafety community before now, to try to adjust to this.”

The C.D.C. does have general guidelines for handling Ebola waste[http://www.cdc.gov.proxy.bc.edu/vhf/ebola/hcp/medical-waste-management.html] and a question-and-answer web page[http://www.cdc.gov.proxy.bc.edu/vhf/ebola/hcp/environmental-infection-control-in-hospitals.html] with some occasionally unexpected recommendations — for instance, that infectious body wastes can be safely flushed into public sewer lines. (Ms. Sharpe concurred with this, but added that many treatment facilities, as a precaution, pour bleach into a toilet and wait several minutes before flushing.)

Beyond the advisories, gray areas complicate waste problems. Because Ebola is such a messy illness, patients’ rooms must be scrupulously cleaned lest a stray drop of blood or vomit spread virus to an unknowing patient or worker. But the cleaning itself is so hazardous that it, too, requires special training and a knowledge of which hospital sterilizers and cleaners are likely to kill the virus.

In Dallas, hospital officials summoned a private hazardous waste cleanup firm to sterilize the room where Thomas Eric Duncan, the nation’s first Ebola victim, died last week[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/09/us/ebola-us-thomas-eric-duncan.html]. Some 140 55-gallon drums of potentially contaminated material were also hauled from the Dallas apartment where he had stayed.

Scientists say Ebola is in a class of viruses that are generally more susceptible than many to chemical disinfectants. But out of caution, the C.D.C. recommends that rooms be cleaned with agents powerful enough to kill hardy viruses like the flu and polio.

That is not the only unresolved question. “The recommendations from C.D.C. on what to do and not to do are based on relatively sparse science,” Dr. Roepe said. “I can only find two that address the simple question of how long the virus persists outside the human body.

“The number you’ll hear from most people is from a few days up to a week,” he said. “But the context in which the virus is found outside the body matters a great deal. How long can it last on a doorknob? We don’t have a lot of raw data, believe it or not.”

* Health Worker Who May Have Had Contact With Ebola Is on Cruise Ship[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/18/us/ebola-cruise-ship-dallas.html]

* Ron Klain, Chief of Staff to 2 Vice Presidents, Is Named Ebola Czar[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/18/us/ron-klain-chief-of-staff-to-2-vice-presidents-is-named-ebola-czar.html]

Plastic drums containing potentially contaminated material were removed from the Dallas apartment where Nurse Pham was staying before being treated for Ebola.  | Mike Stone/Getty Images

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141017eaai0030f


World; Africa
In Conspicuous Success, Senegal Is Declared Ebola-Free
By NICK CUMMING-BRUCE and RICK GLADSTONE
736 words
18 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
GENEVA — The World Health Organization[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/w/world_health_organization/index.html?inline=nyt-org] declared the West African nation of Senegal[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/senegal/index.html?inline=nyt-geo] to be free of Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] on Friday, a rare success in dealing with a deadly virus that has rampaged uncontrolled in neighboring countries and prompted alarm around the world.

Senegal’s achievement came as the health organization was reported to have internally acknowledged its own stark failure to arrest the disease months ago. The internal document reportedly went far beyond the self-criticism that organization officials have expressed publicly about their response.

The W.H.O. announcement on Senegal[http://www.who.int.proxy.bc.edu/mediacentre/news/statements/2014/senegal-ends-ebola/en/] officially concluded a monitoring period of 42 days, twice the maximum incubation period for the virus, in which no new infections were found. The last recorded case in the country was a young man who was entering by road from Guinea; he recovered and returned to Guinea last week, the organization announced.

In what would be another conspicuous success, Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation, appeared close on Friday to declaring itself free of Ebola as well. The country would reach the 42-day milestone on Monday, after an outbreak that infected 20 people and resulted in eight deaths.

Senegal’s proximity to Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, the three countries at the heart of the epidemic, “makes the country still vulnerable to additional imported cases,” the organization said.

More than 4,500 people have died from Ebola and more than 9,200 have been infected in the current outbreak, according to the latest W.H.O. tally [http://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/136645/1/roadmapupdate17Oct14_eng.pdf]posted Friday on its website. The number of cases is still doubling every month.

Still, Senegal’s success in isolating the infection sets an example of good practice at a moment when the organization is trying to strengthen the readiness of 15 other countries in Africa to deal with arriving travelers who are infected with the disease.

The W.H.O., a specialized United Nations agency with its headquarters in Geneva, is responsible for coordinating international responses to contagious diseases.

Dr. Margaret Chan, the director general of the agency, and her top aides have said that all agencies and governments dealing with the Ebola outbreak — including her own — underestimated its severity. But a draft internal document, reported Friday by The Associated Press, uses significantly stronger language in faulting the organization’s performance, citing incompetent staff and scant information.

“Nearly everyone involved in the outbreak response failed to see some fairly plain writing on the wall,” the news agency quoted the document as saying.

Tarik Jasarevic, a W.H.O. spokesman in Geneva, declined to comment on the agency’s report and said he had not seen the document. “We will have a time to review how the response has been handled and we will certainly do that but for the time being we want to focus on helping countries make their response as efficient as possible,” he said.

In Sierra Leone, where Ebola’s ripple effects have led to severe food shortages and hunger, the World Food Program and its partners began what they called the biggest single food distribution operation to date.

Gon Myers, the program’s director in Sierra Leone, said in a statement that more than 800 tons of food had been distributed to 265,000 people on the outskirts of Freetown, the capital, enough to last them for a month. He said the distribution was meant “to prevent this health crisis from becoming a food and nutrition crisis.”

At the United Nations, Sarah Crowe, the crisis communications chief for Unicef, told reporters after a five-week visit to Liberia that “Ebola has hijacked every aspect of life” and left 3,700 orphans in the affected countries.

In another ripple effect, the United Nations Population Fund said that health facilities overstretched by Ebola threatened the needs of pregnant women, who are afraid to visit clinics or are turned away.

More than 800,000 women in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone are likely to give birth in the next 12 months, the agency said.

“The reality is that pregnant women are facing a double threat — dying from Ebola and from pregnancy or childbirth, due to the devastating impact of Ebola on health workers and health systems,” said the agency’s executive director, Dr. Babatunde Osotimehin.

Nick Cumming-Bruce reported from Geneva, and Rick Gladstone from New York.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141017eaai003s6


N.Y. / Region
Putting Photojournalism Where It Will Be Seen: On City Streets
By COREY KILGANNON
884 words
18 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Walking along West 43rd Street in Manhattan on Friday morning, Serena Torres, 45, did a double-take at a jarring, life-size image of a raging man in white robes wielding a machete as he chased a fleeing mob.

“What is this?” said Ms. Torres, an accountant from Ridgewood, Queens, as she stared at the billboard-sized poster and its caption, which described the man as a Muslim shop owner in the Central African Republic chasing looters during intertribal fighting.

“It’s eye-catching, but it doesn’t give a full story,” she said, adding that she was further confused by the name of the poster’s sponsor: #Dysturb.

As it happens, #Dysturb is a group of freelance photographers who about eight hours earlier, had hopped out of a borrowed Cadillac and, with the precision and speed of a racecar pit crew, slapped up the large poster in dim streetlight.

“We were frustrated we couldn’t get our best photos published, so we decided to take them to the best network in the world: the streets,” said Pierre Terdjman, 35, a freelance photojournalist who founded #Dysturb in March along with another photojournalist, Benjamin Girette.

The two have recruited photographers covering the many global crises, including wars, famines, epidemics and protests, and have posted them illegally in 10 European cities before coming to New York.

The guerrilla strategy is meant to draw more attention to urgent world events and make photojournalism accessible to a wider audience, said Mr. Terdjman, who has taken photos for publications including Paris Match and The New York Times.

“We see advertising everywhere, even if we don’t want to see it, so we’re using the same tactic,” he said, as he helped prepare a bucket of glue mixture in the cramped kitchen of a Bronx apartment on Thursday night alongside a crew of mostly French photographers.

The group posted the first two photos in the South Bronx, on a wall outside a bodega. One was a poignant image of Ukrainian children looking up nervously from a bomb shelter, and the other was a view between stretches of barbed wire of Syrian women and children crossing a military checkpoint.

The activity drew an audience of bodega customers and officers in a police car that stopped for a minute or so, then moved on.

Mr. Terdjman said he has asked group members not to run from the police, but rather to describe the project to the officers and offer to take the poster down, if requested. So far, he said, no police officers have stopped them. “We’re not trying to vandalize,” Mr. Terdjman said. “It’s pure journalism. It’s about things going on in the world.”

After the Bronx, the group headed to Manhattan, to Fifth Avenue and 57th Street, and began slopping paste onto a wall next to a Louis Vuitton store — that is, until a worker involved in a renovation project at the store stepped in front of them and said, “Sir, don’t do that here — it’s our property.”

The group left that spot and headed down Fifth Avenue to West 43rd Street and pulled out the photo of the man with the machete, which they posted quickly before hurrying back to their car.

They abandoned a plan to put up photos on Wall Street after seeing a heavy police presence. So they went to Brooklyn, where they stopped at Bedford Avenue and North Seventh Street in Williamsburg, and posted another war image.

It caught the eye of Daniel Weintraub, 31, a self-proclaimed “street art nerd” and owner of Succulent Studios art gallery in Greenpoint. “Whether it’s graffiti or advertising, it’s all marketing,” he said. “And for a political cause, it’s the same idea: using public space to forward your agenda.”

The group then headed down Bedford Avenue to North Sixth Street with Ashley Gilbertson, a freelance photographer for The New York Times and other publications, carrying the paste bucket. On a wall next to a late-night taco truck, the group put up a poster showing Ukrainian mothers and their babies seeking shelter from a bombing.

A few minutes later, on Wythe Avenue and South Sixth Street, Mr. Gilbertson took inventory and said, “O.K., we have Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier], Angola and Hong Kong left.”

The group decided on the Hong Kong protesters and put up the poster as three women walked over from a nearby bar to watch.

Back at West 43rd Street in Manhattan on Friday morning, not everyone was enamored with the group’s methods.

Todd Truzs, 55, a construction worker from Yonkers, looked at the poster of the shop owner chasing looters and said, “Why do they have to break the law to make their point, instead of doing it through the proper procedure.

“They’re trying to bring public attention to something, but on someone else’s property — that’s not right,” said Mr. Truzs, as he pulled off a corner of the poster exposing a piece of paper bearing the order “Post No Bills.”

Photographers mounted  a picture of protesters in Hong Kong in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, while it was still dark Friday morning. | Philip Montgomery for The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141018eaai0005l


N.Y. / Region
For Grimm and Recchia in Congressional Race, a Debate Is All Bark
By MATT FLEGENHEIMER
881 words
18 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The Democratic challenger peered into the camera, primed to deliver his closing argument in a debate colored by accusations of fraud at a health food restaurant, tussles over who is “more Staten Island” and schoolyard jabs that almost certainly sounded sharper in a given candidate’s head.

“You tell me, since you know so much,” the Democrat, Domenic M. Recchia Jr., said when his opponent asked him about federal money for Hurricane Sandy[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/h/hurricanes_and_tropical_storms/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] relief.

But then, as Mr. Recchia reminded the audience as often as possible, that opponent is Representative Michael G. Grimm[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/g/michael_g_grimm/index.html?inline=nyt-per] of Staten Island.

“We are represented by someone who has a criminal indictment pending, 20 counts,” Mr. Recchia said near the start of his closing statement. “In addition to that, he threatened to throw a reporter off the balcony.”

Such is the state of affairs in New York’s 11th Congressional District, which has drawn national attention to Mr. Recchia, whose inelegant exposition recently helped inspire a segment on “The Daily Show,” and Mr. Grimm, the Republican incumbent facing an exhaustive federal indictment that is perhaps the second-most famous thing about him. (The balcony episode, which unspooled while a NY1 camera rolled in January, retains the top spot, at least until his trial begins.)

In the half-hour debate, hosted on Friday by WABC-TV, the candidates largely played to type, at times appearing to relish the event’s devolution into shouting. Mr. Grimm, a former Federal Bureau of Investigation agent once nicknamed “Mikey Suits” for his sartorial leanings, was the more polished jouster. Mr. Recchia, a former city councilman, seemed to speak mostly in exclamation points.

When Mr. Grimm argued that, as a Democrat, Mr. Recchia “won’t even be at the table when big issues are coming up,” Mr. Recchia bellowed at least four times, “You’re not at the table!”

“How would you know?” Mr. Grimm asked between grins. “You’re not in Congress.”

“Let’s not get into another shouting match,” the moderator, the news anchor Diana Williams, said plaintively from across a glass table.

Even before the debate, attack lines in the race, an apparent tossup less than three weeks before Election Day on Nov. 4, have vacillated between unsubtle and befuddling.

Mr. Recchia released an ad last month listing the counts against his rival, who was indicted in April[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/04/29/nyregion/representative-michael-grimm-is-indicted-on-fraud-charges.html] on federal charges that he hired undocumented immigrants at his Manhattan health-food restaurant, Healthalicious, and lied about it to federal investigators.

Mr. Grimm, whose district encompasses Staten Island and parts of Brooklyn, said on Friday he would resign if found guilty of those charges, adding that he was “entitled to my day in court, just like anyone else.” His lawyers have cast the indictment as a witch hunt.

Discussions of Ebola preparations and a past proposal to add tolls to East River bridges were eventually steered back to the indictment, as Mr. Recchia suggested that Mr. Grimm had a pattern of misrepresenting the truth.

Mr. Recchia did not try to reprise a widely mocked argument he made in a recent interview with NY1, when he bemoaned Mr. Grimm’s “44 percentage record on labor.”

Asked at the time what he meant, or where the figure came from, Mr. Recchia said, “When you rate in labor, the 44 percentage record, on labor.”

“Now if you don’t mind,” Jon Stewart, host of “The Daily Show,” said after airing a clip of the interview this week, “I’ve got to go back inside the brick thingy with the roof.” (Mr. Recchia’s campaign said on Friday that the figure came from the A.F.L.-C.I.O.)

Mr. Grimm has at times moved to turn attention to foreign policy, seizing on Mr. Recchia’s comments last month that he had run a student exchange program with Japan while on a local school board. Mr. Recchia, who lives in Gravesend, Brooklyn, also cited trips to Israel, Italy and “many, many countries” to bolster his international record.

On Friday, Mr. Grimm, who was first elected in 2010, focused instead on Mayor Bill de Blasio and the Rev. Al Sharpton, two avatars of liberalism with whom Mr. Grimm has tried to associate his competitor.

Staten Island was the only borough Mr. de Blasio lost in the election last year, and first-year exploits involving pizza (consumed with a knife and fork)[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/11/nyregion/de-blasio-skewered-for-eating-pizza-with-utensils.html] and a notable groundhog (found dead days after the mayor dropped it during a ceremony)[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/26/nyregion/a-groundhog-day-whodunit-the-mystery-of-chucks-death.html] have probably not helped his standing there.

During the debate, Mr. Grimm said the mayor “made a very big mistake by bringing Al Sharpton into center stage” after a Staten Island man, Eric Garner, died after a confrontation with police[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/19/nyregion/staten-island-man-dies-after-he-is-put-in-chokehold-during-arrest.html].

Yet in his final remarks, Mr. Grimm seemed to stumble while trumpeting his loyalty to constituents. “People in my district, they know me,” he said, adding, “I’m there when I need them.”

* Under Indictment, Grimm Fights to Keep His Congressional Seat[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/15/nyregion/under-indictment-grimm-fights-to-keep-his-congressional-seat.html]

* Staten Island Congressman Facing Trial Says Charges Are Political[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/08/nyregion/grimm-congressman-facing-trial-blames-politics-and-grudges.html]

Representative Michael G. Grimm of Staten Island. | Robert Stolarik for The New York Times | Domenic M. Recchia Jr., a former councilman from Brooklyn. | Robert Stolarik for The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141018eaai0008f


U.S.
Health Scare in Texas Also Sends Political Ripples
By MANNY FERNANDEZ
1312 words
18 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
DALLAS — Along with dramas of disease transmission, treatment protocols and personal safety, one story line about the Ebola cases here has concerned the man who wasn’t there, sort of.

Gov. Rick Perry[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/p/rick_perry/index.html?inline=nyt-per].

As national attention has obsessively focused on the three Ebola cases diagnosed here, Mr. Perry has been somewhat removed and, for a time, even absent, after he went ahead with a planned international trip as events were still playing out. Not surprisingly, Democrats have largely been critical and Republicans largely supportive. But on the verge of a potential presidential run, Mr. Perry’s low profile has been a subject of discussion in Texas and beyond.

Mr. Perry’s back-seat public role in the health scare is an unlikely position for an assertive, hands-on governor who has overseen border security missions on patrol boats on the Rio Grande in a backward baseball cap and flak vest.

He left Texas and went to Europe on Sunday for a trip to burnish his foreign policy credentials as he lays the groundwork for a possible second run for president in 2016. He ended up canceling the final leg of the trip and returned to Texas on Thursday afternoon, after a nurse became the second health care worker to test positive early Wednesday.

He resurfaced in the Ebola story Friday. Mr. Perry appeared to take a more aggressive approach, holding a news conference in Austin covered live by CNN and expressing support for the first time for a travel ban for those traveling from countries in West Africa that are the epicenter of the Ebola outbreak. He praised the state response and criticized aspects of the federal one, saying it was “indefensible” that affected hospital workers were allowed to fly or take a cruise.

But throughout the ordeal, Mr. Perry has been in Dallas once, when he held a news conference at the hospital that treated the first Ebola victim, Thomas Eric Duncan[http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/10/01/us/retracing-the-steps-of-the-dallas-ebola-patient.html], on Oct. 1, the day after Mr. Duncan’s diagnosis. As Mr. Perry gave a speech in London at the Royal United Services Institute on Tuesday as part of his Europe trip, the first Dallas nurse infected with Ebola, Nina Pham, was recovering at the hospital, 48 Texans were being monitored by officials for possible Ebola symptoms and Mr. Duncan’s fiancée and three others he had contact with were under state-ordered quarantine.

“I think that the fact that he left the state to travel around Europe shows that he’s going to put his personal priorities and politics above those of everyday Texans,” said Will Hailer, executive director of the Texas Democratic Party. “Cutting it short and going are two different things.”

Mr. Perry and his spokesman dispute any suggestion that he or other state leaders have been anything less than fully engaged on every level of the situation. Mr. Perry said Friday that he spoke with President Obama[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/o/barack_obama/index.html?inline=nyt-per] on Thursday and asked him to put those who had contact with Mr. Duncan on a federal no-fly list.

“Governor Perry has consistently demonstrated leadership in times of crisis and this is no exception,” the spokesman, Felix Browne, said in a statement. “The governor assembled a world-class task force of public health and infectious disease experts to oversee response and preparedness efforts. He continues to be in close touch with officials across government to make sure every action possible is taken to protect the health and safety of Texans.”

Others have taken a more nuanced view. They said the government’s response to Ebola in Dallas has been problematic at the local, state and federal level, with confusion and missteps among all agencies and officials. And they said Mr. Perry’s decision to leave for Europe came before the second nurse, Amber Joy Vinson, had gone to the emergency room feeling ill and the news about her air travel between Dallas and Cleveland spread alarm throughout Dallas and the country.

“In retrospect, this has been a pretty rapidly evolving situation that’s gotten much more complicated than most people envisioned at the starting point,” said James Henson, director of the Texas Politics Project[http://texaspolitics.utexas.edu/textbook/] at the University of Texas at Austin. “This is the kind of situation that the cliché ‘hindsight is 20/20’ was made for. If he knew then what he knows now he almost certainly wouldn’t have gone to Europe.”

Ebola has arrived in Texas at a complicated time for Mr. Perry politically. His tenure as the longest-serving governor in the history of the state ends in January, 14 years after he first took office. His every move or remark is analyzed as he presents himself as a potential presidential contender. And he has been fighting a legal battle in court, after a Travis County grand jury indicted him in August on charges of abusing his official capacity and coercing a public servant, in a messy case involving his veto power as governor and Austin’s top prosecutor.

After the Oct. 1 press conference, Mr. Perry played a largely hands-off role in Dallas itself in the immediate days that followed, apparently keeping in communication with state agency leaders but having little direct contact with the local officials on the ground. Mr. Browne, the governor’s spokesman, said the list of officials the governor had spoken with included Mr. Obama; Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, director of the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Sylvia Mathews Burwell, the secretary of health and human services; and Dr. David L. Lakey, the commissioner of the Texas Department of State Health Services. No city or county leaders were included in the list Mr. Browne provided.

Although the first three cases of Ebola diagnosed in the United States have occurred in Texas in the span of two weeks, the main public faces of the government’s Ebola response have been local and federal but not state — Mike Rawlings, the mayor of Dallas; Clay Jenkins, Dallas County’s chief executive; and Dr. Frieden with the C.D.C. The state’s primary public figure in the Ebola drama has so far been not so much a face but a voice — Dr. Lakey, the state health commissioner, who appears with Dr. Frieden on the C.D.C.'s frequent news conferences via phone from Texas.

Supporters say that before he left for Europe and after he returned, Mr. Perry has been active in coordinating state resources and personnel. He created a 15-member task force on infectious disease preparedness, made up of experts who are developing a comprehensive state plan and are holding their first hearing in Austin on Thursday. The task force has made initial recommendations, including establishing two Ebola treatment centers in Texas.

And some say that if he could have been more active it reflects the uncertain course of the ordeal rather than any major misstep on Mr. Perry’s part.

“Part of leadership is being present and being seen,” said Jerry Patterson, the state land commissioner, a former state senator and one of the few Republican elected officials in Texas who has been known to openly criticize Mr. Perry. “But I don’t fault him at all. The dynamic changed dramatically when the second diagnosis occurred. If I was in the governor’s shoes, I would have gone to Europe, and if I was in the governor’s shoes when the second diagnosis occurred, I would have returned from Europe just as he did.”

David Montgomery contributed reporting.

* Staff in Texas Ebola Case Is Asked to Avoid Public Spaces[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/18/us/ebola-cruise-ship-dallas.html]

* Vice-Presidential Aide To Lead Ebola Response[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/18/us/ron-klain-chief-of-staff-to-2-vice-presidents-is-named-ebola-czar.html]

* Waste From Ebola Poses Challenge to Hospitals[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/18/us/waste-from-ebola-poses-challenge-to-hospitals.html]

Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, center, arriving for a news conference on Friday in Austin to discuss his state’s Ebola prevention efforts. | Eric Gay/Associated Press

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141018eaai000b6


U.S.
Obama Names Democratic Operative to Coordinate Ebola Response
By SABRINA TAVERNISE and MITCHELL SMITH
1529 words
18 October 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
WASHINGTON — President Obama named a trusted political adviser on Friday to take over the government’s response to the deadly Ebola virus, as health officials in two states worked to track a growing list of people who may have been exposed because of missteps in quarantine and containment.

The appointment of Ron Klain, a seasoned Democratic operative and White House veteran, spoke of the seriousness of the situation for the administration, which was eager to put the management of the crisis back on track in the midst of a tough election season. The response has been criticized as sloppy, with two intensive care nurses in a Dallas hospital falling ill after treating a Liberian, Thomas Eric Duncan, who eventually died from the virus. One of the nurses had been allowed to take a commercial flight despite telling the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that she was running a slightly elevated temperature.

The appointment came a day after members of Congress lashed out at federal health officials and just hours after the disclosure by the State Department that yet another employee of the Dallas hospital, Texas Health Presbyterian, who had handled Ebola specimens in a lab, had traveled, boarding a Caribbean cruise ship. The government of Belize said the ship was in that country’s waters, but the authorities there have refused to allow American officials to evacuate the passenger. Mexico would not even allow the ship to dock and it was headed back to Galveston, Tex., with the lab worker held in isolation.

Officials said the risk of infection was very low, but the revelation deepened the impression that the administration was struggling to stay ahead of the virus and the public anxiety it is prompting.

Some Republicans criticized the White House for choosing a point man without medical expertise. They also renewed calls for a ban on travel from the three most affected African countries — Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea — a step Mr. Obama opposes and that the country’s public health experts say would be counterproductive. In a sign of the public mood, on Friday even some Democrats, those in close races, broke ranks to call for a ban.

“Ebola is a health crisis, yet the president has appointed as his new Ebola czar a partisan loyalist whose expertise is politics — not health,” said Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama.

But health experts disagreed, saying the problem was less about expertise and more in the guts of government and how to wrangle multiple federal agencies. “We don’t need another doctor,” said Dr. William Schaffner, a professor of preventive medicine at Vanderbilt University. Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, who had been the face of Mr. Obama’s response until now, is a superb scientist and disease detective, he said. “We need someone who is savvy in Washington, and who can coordinate federal agencies and Congress.”

In Texas, Gov. Rick Perry, a Republican who is a presidential aspirant, said he had asked Mr. Obama by phone to place those who have had direct contact with Ebola patients to be placed on the federal no-fly list. In a news conference in Austin, Mr. Perry called it “indefensible,” that the nurse, Amber Joy Vinson, was allowed to fly to Ohio. “It defies common sense,” he added, that someone involved in the care of Ebola patients “would travel out of state or go on a cruise.”

In the absence of federal action, Texas asked the hospital workers who had cared for Mr. Duncan to sign a document agreeing to stay away from restaurants, grocery stores, movie theaters and other public places for 21 days — the duration of the maximum incubation period for the virus. That included asking them not to travel by airplane, ship, long-distance bus, train or other modes of commercial transportation.

In all, federal health officials are monitoring 143 people, a roster that includes contacts of Mr. Duncan’s, and of the two nurses, according to the C.D.C. About 110 of them are health workers, who are being checked daily by officials who look for fever or any other symptoms. Previously, the workers had been under a so-called self-monitoring regimen, checking their temperature regularly on their own. Mr. Perry said that eight people who were seated within three feet of Ms. Vinson, the nurse who took the flight, are being monitored twice a day. Also on Friday, the C.D.C. said it was planning to issue the details of its new guidelines for personal protective equipment in the coming days.

Officials took pains to reassure people that the illness of two nurses, while tragic, did not mean that the nation was facing an outbreak, and that the main threat to Americans’ safety remained West Africa. Some health experts said that Washington and Texas were gaining a foothold on what has been slippery terrain. “We’ve been responding to the incoming, some of which surprised us, but I see the ship righting itself,” said Dr. Schaffner. “The larger questions are starting to be addressed.”

But that message did not always seem to be getting through, and worry continued to run high. Some schools closed for a second day in Ohio and Texas, and vigilance went into overdrive with potential cases across the country being flagged, including at the University of Texas, where university official sent out an alert after learning that a student had flown on the same flight as Ms. Vinson. (The student was not seated near her.) In Virginia, there was a temporary quarantine of military members going to a Marine Corps ceremony in Washington after a woman became ill in the Pentagon parking lot. Virginia public health authorities later Friday said she did not have Ebola.

In Dallas for the first time, no Ebola patients were left to care for on Friday. The last remaining patient — an intensive care nurse named Nina Pham, who treated Mr. Duncan in the early days of his illness — was evacuated late Thursday night from Texas Presbyterian to Maryland.

“Now they are just clearing the ward to get ready if someone else comes,” said a federal health official who was continuing to train the hospital’s staff on how to handle Ebola patients. The official, who did not want to be identified, said the nurses and other workers felt let down that Ms. Pham had been transferred. “It would have been good for the morale if that patient had stayed.”

Ms. Pham arrived at a special clinical center at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md., at 11:54 p.m. on Thursday in a secure ambulance after arriving at Frederick Municipal Airport. She has two nurses in her room on 12-hour shifts and a large team of medical workers, officials there said.

“We have hope that Nina Pham will recover completely and walk out of this hospital,” said Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.

Before she was transferred, the hospital released a video of her in her hospital bed, sitting up and talking to health care workers in protective garb. Ms. Pham can be seen wiping away tears. “Come to Maryland, everybody,” she says. “Party in Maryland.”

Health officials continued to track passengers from Ms. Vinson’s two flights, making contact with all 132 passengers from the Oct. 13 flight, and about 50 out of the roughly 160 passengers from the flight on Oct. 10.

Frontier Airlines said it would contact passengers on five other flights, in addition to the two that carried Ms. Vinson, to include those who used the same plane afterward, telling them to contact the C.D.C. if they hae health concerns. In all, 16 close contacts of Ms. Vinson’s were being monitored in Ohio.

The bridal store where Ms. Vinson shopped had a sign out front Friday afternoon saying it was closed “until further notice.” Her family’s home in nearby Tallmadge, Ohio, was roped off with yellow tape. Cheryl Pierce, a resident of Akron, said she was still shaking strangers’ hands and, as usual, expected to hug fellow worshipers in church on Sunday. But having quarantines and closed schools nearby added a different dimension to something that, only days ago, seemed so far from Ohio.

“Just think,” Ms. Pierce said. “Three weeks ago, we just thought it was over there somewhere.”

Sabrina Tavernise reported from Washington, and Mitchell Smith from Akron, Ohio. Reporting was contributed by Michael Schmidt, Julie Hirschfeld Davis, and Jonathan Martin from Washington, Alan Blinder from Atlanta, and Manny Fernandez from Dallas.

* Vice-Presidential Aide To Lead Ebola Response[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/18/us/ron-klain-chief-of-staff-to-2-vice-presidents-is-named-ebola-czar.html]

* Waste From Ebola Poses Challenge to Hospitals[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/18/us/waste-from-ebola-poses-challenge-to-hospitals.html]

* Controls Poor in Dallas, Nurse Says[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/us/controls-poor-at-hospital-nurse-says.html]

County Judge Clay Jenkins, Dallas County’s chief executive and its director of homeland security and emergency management, at a news conference on Wednesday. | Stewart F. House/Getty Images | Nina Pham, the first nurse in the United States found to have the Ebola virus, is being treated at a specialized isolation unit near Washington.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141017eaai001gt


news
U.S. Ebola search is extended to ship; Dallas hospital worker who may have been exposed is on a cruise
By MANNY FERNANDEZ and ALAN COWELL
895 words
18 October 2014
International New York Times
INHT
4
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Adding a new and troubling dimension to the search for Americans possibly exposed to the Ebola virus, the State Department said Friday that an employee of Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital who might have had contact with specimens of the disease had left the United States aboard a cruise ship.

The employee and a traveling partner, who were not identified by name, agreed to remain isolated in a cabin aboard the vessel, the State Department said, and ‘‘out of an abundance of caution’’ efforts were underway to repatriate them. A physician aboard the cruise ship told the authorities that the employee was in good health.

The news came as President Obama and American officials increase their efforts to monitor and contain Ebola, which has sown mounting fear among the public despite the fact that only two people have been confirmed to have contracted the disease in the United States.

On Friday, Mr. Obama named Ron Klain, a seasoned Democratic crisis-response operative and White House veteran, to manage the government’s response to the deadly virus.

Mr. Klain, a former chief of staff for Vice Presidents Al Gore and Joseph R. Biden Jr., is known for his ability to handle high-stakes and fast-moving political challenges. He was the lead Democratic lawyer for Mr. Gore during the 2000 election recount.

News reports Friday quoting an official statement from the government of Belize said the cruise ship carrying the hospital employee was in that country’s waters, but the authorities there refused to allow American officials to evacuate the passengers through their territory.

While United States officials ‘‘had emphasized the very low risk category in this case,’’ the statement said, ‘‘the government of Belize decided not to facilitate a U.S. request for assistance in evacuating the passenger through’’ an airport.

The discl