
Factiva
Dow Jones
World; Africa
Liberia Bans Election Rallies to Fight Ebola
By CLAIR MacDOUGALL and RICK GLADSTONE
657 words
5 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
MONROVIA, Liberia — President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf on Thursday banned all rallies and other mass gatherings in Monrovia before the senatorial election scheduled in less than two weeks, asserting that they risked worsening the spread of the Ebola [http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] outbreak.

The president’s order also extended the ban to 30 days beyond the election. The order came just as Liberia [http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/liberia/index.html?inline=nyt-geo] appears to have made progress in slowing the disease, which has also severely afflicted neighboring Guinea and Sierra Leone, and has spread to Mali.

Ebola [http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] has now sickened more than 17,200 people in the three worst-hit countries and killed more than 6,100, according to the latest data posted Thursday by the World Health Organization. Half the deaths have been in Liberia.

In issuing the crowd-control order, Ms. Johnson Sirleaf argued that large concentrations of people at election rallies — especially in the Monrovia area, where half the population of four million lives — were precisely the situations that could spawn new infections.

Curbing such gatherings, she said, would “strengthen the efforts of the government of Liberia to contain the spread of Ebola, to protect the security of the state, maintain law and order and promote peace and stability in Liberia.”

The Senate election, scheduled for Dec. 16, already has been postponed once because of the Ebola crisis, which began last March. It has escalated into what United Nations officials have called one of the worst public health crises of modern times.

The Supreme Court of Liberia is deliberating on petitions filed by civil society groups seeking a further postponement of the election until the crisis is over, and its decision could come on Friday.

Most political parties, however, want the election to proceed.

The chairman of the Liberian National Elections Commission, Jerome Korkoya, said further delays could cause havoc in convening a new Senate.

“The government would be crippled,” Mr. Korkoya said in an interview. “We have no option.”

Politics may also have played some part in the ban on rallies. One of the most hotly contested Senate races has pit a rival of the president, the former soccer star George Weah, against one of her sons, Robert Sirleaf. Mr. Weah is considered the front-runner among several candidates.

The election developments came as a member of the United Nations mission in Liberia tested positive for Ebola, United Nations officials said. It was the third such case in the mission. The other two stricken members died.

The United Nations also announced that Germany had donated 400 motorbikes equipped with cooler boxes to help accelerate deliveries of blood samples to laboratories in remote areas of Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone.

Delays in waiting time for Ebola test results have been a persistent challenge in containing the disease.

United Nations officials also have expressed anxiety about preventing Ebola from gaining momentum in Mali, where eight cases have been reported, six of them fatal.

Dr. David Nabarro, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s special envoy for the Ebola crisis, conferred with senior Malian officials in Bamako, the capital, on Thursday and commended them for an aggressive response, but said “as long as there is Ebola in any neighboring country, Mali needs to be on high alert, all the time.”

Mr. Ban, asked about Ebola at a news conference at the United Nations in New York, called it an “unprecedented disease” partly caused by dysfunctional health systems in West Africa.

“First of all, we have to stop this virus and we have to treat all the people,” he said. Helping the afflicted countries and preventing a further outbreak, he said, “are top priorities of the United Nations at this time.”

Clair MacDougall reported from Monrovia, and Rick Gladstone from New York.

President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf of Liberia in Monrovia in October. She has banned mass gatherings linked to Senate elections. | John Moore/Getty Images

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141205eac5000p1


edit
Images of 2014; Special Report: Turning Points / Global Agenda
43 words
6 December 2014
International New York Times
INHT
205
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The images make us uneasy, because it was not an easy year, from the scourge of Ebola to the scourge of ISIS. But Hong Kong held the line, and women soared at Sochi.

International Herald Tribune

Document INHT000020141205eac60002x


Essay
Magazine
Are We Missing the Big Picture on Climate Change?
By REBECCA SOLNIT
1452 words
7 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The human hands in blue medical gloves spread out the swallow’s wings. The brown feathers jut out like spikes, their tips frizzled and scorched. These wings are no longer graceful fans capable of cupping and pushing off against the air. The left one is worse than the right, and the tail is a pitiful cluster of sticks. This is the wreckage of a bird, the ruin of it. The beauty of a rough-winged swallow is in its flight, the way its darting, swooping path carves arabesques through the skies. Not this bird.

Imagine that bird, small enough to hold in your hand and light enough that you would hardly feel its weight. And then imagine a place nearly five times the size of Central Park, filled with mirrors that rotate like flowers to face the sun, roughly 350,000 of them. Those mirrors face three central towers, each 459 feet tall — ‘'150 feet taller than the Statue of Liberty,'’ as the February news release lauding the opening of the Ivanpah Solar Electric Generating System put it. Ivanpah, in the Mojave Desert of Southern California near the Nevada border, is the biggest solar thermal plant in the world. The mirrors focus the sun’s light on the central towers, generating heat to boil water and drive turbines with the steam. At full capacity these turbines should produce 392 megawatts of power, or enough electricity to power 140,000 homes.

Some waterfowl mistake that shining sea of mirrors for a real lake, so they try to land on it. But without water to launch themselves back into the air, they’re stranded, prey for coyotes or doomed to die of thirst or hunger. Other birds fly into Ivanpah, where, dazzled by glare, they collide with the mirrors or towers. Still others are scorched by the heat and fall to their deaths.

It’s this last form of avian death that became news. In August, The Atlantic described Ivanpah ‘'incinerating'’ birds in flight; The Associated Press reported that wildlife investigators saw birds ‘'ignite,'’ and that birds ‘'burned and fell'’ every two minutes. Ivanpah’s corporate website noted that a death every two minutes would mean 100,000 dead birds a year, while only 321 dead and injured birds had been recovered. The actual number of deaths seems to be well above the power plant’s tally and far below the number reported by The Associated Press. But birds do die there, in many ways.

There’s a gospel song with the haunting refrain ‘'His eye is on the sparrow,'’ sung by everyone from Sam Cooke to Lauryn Hill. It describes an all-seeing, compassionate God who watches over everything, the creatures small as well as great, the rough-winged swallows as well as the trumpeter swans, the voles as well as the bighorn sheep. Our human eyes miss so much. Most of us are better at specifics than generalities, at sudden events rather than ongoing patterns, at the fate of a single sparrow rather than a species or its habitat.

To grasp climate change, you have to think in terms of species and their future. To know how things have already changed, you have to remember how they used to be, and so you may not notice birds disappearing from the skies, or hotter weather or more extreme storms and forest fires. You need to look past the sparrow and see the whole system that allows — or allowed — the birds to flourish. The swallows, the chinook salmon, desert tortoises, manatees, moose and us. Addressing climate means fixing the way we produce energy. But maybe it also means addressing the problems with the way we produce stories.

Supporters of fossil fuel and deniers of climate change love to trade in stories like the one about Ivanpah, individual tales that make renewable energy seem counterproductive, perverse. Stories cannot so readily capture the far larger avian death toll from coal, gas and nuclear power generation. Benjamin Sovacool, an energy-policy expert, looked into the deaths of birds at wind farms (where the blades can chop them down) and concluded that per gigawatt hour, nuclear power plants kill more than twice as many birds and fossil-fuel plants kill more than 30 times as many. He noted that over the course of a year fossil-fuel plants in the United States actually kill about 24 million birds, compared to 46,000 by wind farms. His calculations factor in climate change as part of their deadly impact.

Over all, climate change tends to be reported as abstract explanations about general tendencies and possible outcomes. It’s a difficult subject to tell and to take in. The scientific side is complicated. Understanding it requires the ultimate in systems thinking: the cumulative effect of all of us burning coal and oil impacts things far away and yet to come. A lot of it is hard to see. If you didn’t pay attention to a species beforehand, you won’t have noticed its decline. There’s no direct, tangible way for you to know the ocean is 30 percent more acidic than it used to be, or that it is expected to rise several feet in this century and then keep rising.

For a while our eyes were on the photographs of oil-soaked pelicans, victims of the 2010 BP blowout in the Gulf of Mexico. The devastation of the region is no longer news, but scientists, who track data for long unnewsworthy swathes of time, have found that the spill has killed more than 600,000 birds. It is still killing sea turtles and bottlenose dolphins and contaminating the seafood in areas where human beings fish. You have to look past what can be photographed — individual cases, incidents in the past — at the broad patterns. A recent Audubon Society report on climate change concludes: ‘'Of the 588 North American bird species Audubon studied, more than half are likely to be in trouble. Our models indicate that 314 species will lose more than 50 percent of their current climatic range by 2080. Of the 314 species at risk from global warming, 126 of them are classified as climate endangered. These birds are projected to lose more than 50 percent of their current range by 2050.'’

That one death is a tragedy, a million deaths a statistic, is as true of animals as it is of human beings. It’s a lot harder to mourn a potential loss of an entire habitat — as is threatened now for birds like the chestnut-collared longspur — than it is to mourn a golden eagle struck down by a turbine blade, or a warbler scorched in a solar farm. The technology for wind and solar farms can still be improved, but they are among the few remedies we have to the biggest problem humanity has ever faced. All over the world, renewable energy is proliferating — even on the plains of West Texas, there are now wind turbines among the fracking wells. Wind and solar are not only problems but solutions to the deadliness of the fossil fuel industry, whether it’s through routine devastation, as with tar sands, or catastrophic accidents, as with the BP spill, or the sabotage of the whole planetary system by climate change.

Climate change is everything, a story and a calamity bigger than any other. It’s the whole planet for the whole foreseeable future, the entire atmosphere, all the oceans, the poles; it’s weather and crop failure and famine and tropical diseases heading north and desertification and the uncertain fate of a great majority of species on earth. The stories about individual birds can distract us from the slow-motion calamity that will eventually threaten every bird.

And so we should seek out new kinds of stories — stories that make us more alarmed about our conventional energy sources than the alternatives, that provide context, that show us the future as well as the past, that make us see past the death of a sparrow or a swallow to the systems of survival for whole species and the nature of the planet we leave to the future.

Rebecca Solnit is the author of 17 books, including, most recently, “The Encyclopedia of Trouble and Spaciousness” and “Men Explain Things to Me.”

* Do Online Death Threats Count as Free Speech?[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/30/magazine/do-online-death-threats-count-as-free-speech.html]

* The Dark Side of Zootopia[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/23/magazine/the-dark-side-of-zootopia.html]

* What an Uncensored Letter to M.L.K. Reveals[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/16/magazine/what-an-uncensored-letter-to-mlk-reveals.html]

* Treating Ebola Without Fear[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/09/magazine/treating-ebola-without-fear.html]

Illustration by Javier Jaén | A northern rough-winged swallow with scorched wings found near the site of the Ivanpah Solar Electric Generating System in the Mojave Desert. | BrightSource Energy

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141202eac7002mh


U.S.
Driver Is Charged After Killing Muslim Teenager
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
484 words
7 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — A Muslim teenager was run down by a sport utility vehicle and killed on Thursday, and the driver has been charged with first-degree murder in what the police are investigating as a possible hate crime.

The victim, Abdisamad Sheikh-Hussein, 15, was killed outside a Somali community center here.

According to a probable-cause statement, the suspect, Ahmed H. Aden, 34, of Kansas City, struck the teenager as he got into a car. A witness reported seeing the boy “fly through the air” before the S.U.V. ran over him. His legs were nearly severed, and he died in a hospital of his wounds.

Prosecutors were requesting a $250,000 bond. No lawyer was listed for Mr. Aden in online court records.

In the weeks before the crash, worshipers at the center said, they saw a black S.U.V. painted with threatening messages at the community center and cruising around a nearby shopping area. One of the messages was “Islam is worse than Ebola,” said Mohamed Ahmed, 13.

“I would have thought the police would have taken care of it, but they didn’t,” he said.

Mohamed Farah, 50, a friend of the boy’s family, said he had called the police more than once in October about a suspicious man who had been coming around the center.

“I feel like I lost a part of my body,” he said.

Court documents say Mr. Aden crashed the S.U.V. and got out of the vehicle with a knife. Occupants of the car that the boy had been getting into told police officers that they had followed Mr. Aden, and they pointed him out. One witness said the suspect had swung what appeared to be a baseball bat at people, and another witness reported that Mr. Aden had pulled out a handgun and said, “Stay there,” as he tried to get away.

Mr. Aden initially told the authorities that he had lost control of his vehicle. He later said he had struck the teenager because he looked like a man who had threatened him several days earlier, the probable-cause statement said.

Federal agents were assisting in the investigation and “have opened this matter as a federal civil rights investigation as a potential hate crimes violation,” according to an F.B.I. spokeswoman, Bridget Patton. Ms. Patton said she could not release any information on why the case might be considered a hate crime.

Bakar Abdalla, 31, said the boy’s father was a teacher at the community center.

Khadra Dirir, the victim’s aunt, said he had regularly studied the Quran and had delivered a group prayer the night he died.

“If you asked him a verse, he could tell the chapter,” she said.

Abdisamad Sheikh-Hussein | Department of Motor Vehicles

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141206eac700335


The Public Editor
Public Editor
Journalism in the Time of Ebola
By MARGARET SULLIVAN
972 words
7 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
WHEN The Times’s Pentagon correspondent, Helene Cooper, made a recent reporting trip to Liberia, she felt reasonably ready to see the effects of Ebola on the West African country where she grew up.

“I thought I was prepared,” she recalled when we spoke by phone last week. “I’ve covered wars, and you put on this emotional shield.”

But when Ms. Cooper was confronted[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/03/us/us-effort-in-liberia-barely-gets-on-the-ground.html?module=Search&mabReward=relbias%3Aw] with the arrival by ambulance of a skinny 9-year-old boy at a triage unit in Liberia — and when she heard medical personnel ask him how many members of his household had died — that reporter’s shield did her no good. The child already had lost his mother and father to the relentless disease and clearly was dying himself.

“That’s when I lost it,” she said.

The Times is now in its sixth month of covering the spread of Ebola. One measure of the effort’s intensity: Since late July, more than 70 front-page Ebola stories have been published, carrying the bylines of nearly three dozen Times writers. The paper has produced more than 350 articles about Ebola this year.

“It has been like mobilizing to cover a war — the urgency, the scale, the number of bodies, and the coordination required,” said Greg Winter, the editor on the International Desk who handles Africa stories.

Mr. Winter said he could also compare the experience to covering a natural disaster, like a tsunami, but with an important difference. “With a natural disaster, it hits and subsides. This one keeps on hitting.”

The coverage is also unusual in that so many departments at The Times have been involved — international, business, metro, national, investigative, Washington and science. It has also had a strong graphic component, including a frequently updated Ebola Facts graphic[http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/07/31/world/africa/ebola-virus-outbreak-qa.html?_r=0]; so far, that has garnered 3.8 million page views. And the Well blog, combined with social media, has responded[http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/?s=ebola] to reader questions and fears with primers and Q. and A.’s in real time.

I’ve been watching with interest since one of the first major stories appeared[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/28/world/africa/ebola-epidemic-west-africa-guinea.html?module=Search&mabReward=relbias%3Aw] on July 27: Adam Nossiter’s report from Guinea about the spread of the disease, which at that point had killed more than 600 people. (The count is now above 6,000[http://apps.who.int/gho/data/view.ebola-sitrep.ebola-summary-latest?lang=en].) It was one of four stories that appeared on the front page before the World Health Organizationdeclared[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/09/world/africa/who-declares-ebola-in-west-africa-a-health-emergency.html?module=Search&mabReward=relbias%3Aw] the outbreak an international emergency.

As Ms. Cooper put it: “We ramped up early and we’ve never ramped down.”

I thought Times readers might appreciate a look behind the scenes at what it takes to follow, and keep following, a story like this. The paper has drawn on its tremendous assets — a large staff, expertise and experience in Africa and on global health issues, and a willingness to spend and keep spending — to cover Ebola wherever it leads.

The Times is certainly not alone in the effort; wire services and other large news organizations have also done plenty of good work, but the scope of Times coverage is notable. And while some readers have complained[http://publiceditor.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/10/28/responding-to-reader-concerns-on-ebola-coverage/] to me about The Times occasionally joining in the media hysteria about Ebola, I have seen little of that.

Certainly, it has been extraordinarily expensive, in dollars and in staff resources. Times journalists have been continually in and out of the disease-plagued regions of West Africa. They include Mr. Nossiter and fellow reporters Norimitsu Onishi[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/29/world/africa/in-liberias-capital-an-ebola-outbreak-like-no-other.html?module=Search&mabReward=relbias%3Aw], Sheri Fink[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/08/world/life-death-and-careful-routine-fill-the-day-at-a-liberian-ebola-clinic.html?module=Search&mabReward=relbias%3Aw] and Jeffrey Gettleman[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/28/world/africa/despite-aid-push-ebola-is-raging-in-sierra-leone.html], as well as the photographers Samuel Aranda[http://www.nytimes.com/slideshow/2014/10/01/world/africa/20141002-SIERRA-nytnow.html] and Daniel Berehulak[http://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/11/03/portraits-of-those-braving-ebola/]. Ben C. Solomon’s videos[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/17/world/africa/because-of-ebola-ambulance-work-in-liberia-is-a-busy-and-lonely-business.html?module=Search&mabReward=relbias%3Aw] have put readers on the scene. In New York, other reporters, including the veteran science writers Denise Grady[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/10/world/africa/tracing-ebolas-breakout-to-an-african-2-year-old.html?module=Search&mabReward=relbias%3Aw] and Donald McNeil[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/01/health/ebola-outbreak-in-nigeria-appears-to-be-over.html?module=Search&mabReward=relbias%3Aw], have been reporting intensively on Ebola for months.

Real challenges have arisen, with safety concerns topping the list. Times editors have doctors on call for those in the Ebola zone and contingency evacuation plans should any staff member become ill. Times journalists have become expert, by necessity, in using protective gear on the job, and in monitoring for symptoms afterward.

Celia Dugger — a deputy science editor whose background as a global health reporter and as The Times’s correspondent in South Africa has well prepared her for helping to drive the coverage — is struck particularly by one aspect of this sweeping story. “It is the rare case of a story involving the very poorest people on earth that has taken the world stage,” Ms. Dugger told me.

The Times’s role, she said, “is to try and tell the story in all its dimensions and to get accurate information out there.” That has not been easy, she said, in “an atmosphere of fear, anxiety and misinformation.”

But perhaps most important, the paper has told the human story, seldom more movingly than in a piece by Mr. Onishi last month[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/14/world/africa/in-ebola-outbreak-in-liberia-a-familys-strength-can-be-its-fatal-flaw.html] about a Liberian family — including an N.B.A. hopeful — devastated by the disease. Mr. Berehulak brought home the family’s grief in photographs that his editor, David Furst, called “soul-crushing.”

This is a moment in journalism history when many legacy news organizations are being forced to cut costs[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/02/business/media/new-york-times-plans-cutbacks-in-newsroom-staff.html] and change course; just last week many well-respected Times journalists said they were taking buyouts[http://www.capitalnewyork.com/article/media/2014/12/8556472/emnew-york-timesem-buyout-watch-2014] and leaving the paper, which may still lay some people off. Amid that reality, the Ebola coverage is worth acknowledging as a remarkable example of what The Times must preserve as it moves forward.

•

Recent posts to the Public Editor’s Journal include a look[http://publiceditor.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/12/01/should-the-times-have-left-it-out-and-what-exactly-was-it/?module=BlogPost-Title&version=Blog%20Main&contentCollection=Opinion&action=Click&pgtype=Blogs®ion=Body] at a contentious aspect of Ferguson, Mo., coverage, and a Thanksgiving controversy over a grape salad[http://publiceditor.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/11/20/new-york-times-minnesota-grape-salad/?module=BlogPost-Title&version=Blog%20Main&contentCollection=Opinion&action=Click&pgtype=Blogs®ion=Body] recipe.

Follow the public editor on Twitter at twitter.com/sulliview and read her blog at publiceditor.blogs.nytimes.com.  The public editor can also be reached by e-mail: public@nytimes.com.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141206eac7003s5


World; Africa
As Ebola Rages, Poor Planning Thwarts Efforts
By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN
1706 words
7 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
KERRY TOWN, Sierra Leone — On a freshly cleared hillside outside the capital, where the trees have been chopped down and replaced with acres of smooth gravel, the new Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] treatment center seems to have everything. There are racks of clean pink scrubs and white latex boots, bathrooms that smell like Ajax, solar-powered lights, a pharmacy tent, even a thatch-roofed hut to relax in.

But one piece is missing: staff. The facility opened recently with a skeleton crew. Now, in an especially hard-hit area where people are dying every day because they cannot get into an Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] clinic, 60 of the 80 beds at the Kerry Town Ebola clinic are not being used.

It is like this with a lot here: good intentions, bad planning. Aid officials in Sierra Leone[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/sierraleone/index.html?inline=nyt-geo] say poor coordination among aid groups, government mismanagement and some glaring inefficiencies are costing countless lives.

Some officials argue that the whole response system seems to be begging for a McKinsey & Company, or some other troubleshooter, to rush in and problem solve.

Ambulances, for example, are being used to ferry blood samples, sometimes just one test tube at a time, while many patients die at home after waiting days for an ambulance to come.

Half of the patients in some front-line Ebola clinics do not even have Ebola, but their test results take so long that they end up lingering for days, taking beds from people whose lives hang in the balance and greatly increasing their own chances of catching the virus in such close quarters.

Even after patients recover, many treatment centers delay releasing them for more than a week until there are enough other survivors, sometimes dozens, to hold one huge goodbye ceremony for everyone — again, keeping desperately needed beds occupied. “I just wanted to get home and see my wife,” said Suliman Wafta, a recent Ebola survivor treated nearby. “But I had to wait eight extra days.”

The latest Ebola numbers are ominous. This past week, Sierra Leone reported almost 100 new cases in a single day, nearly double the number just 10 days before — and those are only the confirmed cases, which health experts say may be a third of the total. At this rate, the swelling roster of the gravely ill will far outstrip even the most optimistic projections for new hospital beds.

The recriminations are beginning to fly, especially against Britain[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/unitedkingdom/index.html?inline=nyt-geo], which, in a colonial-style carve-up of Ebola-afflicted countries, is the international power taking the lead here.

“Why are the British here? To end Ebola, or party?” read a headline in a local newspaper. It added, “While their American counterparts are working hard to end Ebola in Liberia, our so-called colonial masters are busy living the life of Riley.”

British officials say that is not true, and that the 800 or so soldiers deployed here, who are building new treatment centers and training medics, are not allowed even a beer. “We’re working from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m., seven days a week,” said Maj. Simon Reeves, a spokesman.

A big question people here are beginning to ask is whether the American military, which has sent 2,400 troops to Liberia, has any appetite to come to Sierra Leone. Many aid officials say the Pentagon’s role in building treatment centers, establishing mobile blood labs and ferrying Ebola supplies around Liberia has helped slow the epidemic there.

An Obama administration official in Washington said that no decision had been made to shift American troops from Liberia to Sierra Leone or send in large numbers of reinforcements, but that “nothing is off the table.”

Like others, the official kept citing the “Brits’ primacy” in Sierra Leone — a reference to how, several months ago, Western powers divided Ebola responsibilities in West Africa along historical lines, with the United States helping Liberia, a nation founded by freed American slaves in 1822; France helping a former colony, Guinea; and Britain helping its own former colony, Sierra Leone.

According to several other American officials, the Pentagon was not enthusiastic about getting involved in Liberia in the first place and is resistant to going deeper into the region.

“They basically said, ‘We know conflict, but we don’t know Ebola,' ” said one American official in West Africa. The military is also tired from fighting two long wars, the official said.

The Pentagon press secretary, Rear Adm. John F. Kirby, said the Defense Department was continuing to “monitor the spread of Ebola,” and was “mindful that it doesn’t just exist in Liberia.” In the next month, it will send two mobile blood labs to Sierra Leone to help reduce the bottlenecks caused by delays in testing.

Many aid officials in Sierra Leone said they crave a more effective command structure. The government runs a national emergency center, but aid officials said that with scores of foreign experts, government delegations and private charities flocking here, coordination was still messy, with many gaps and overlaps. It is extremely difficult, they said, to get even the most basic information, including how many treatment centers exist.

There are also growing questions about corruption, with the government announcing recently that it had found 6,000 “ghost medical workers” on its payroll, even as real Ebola burial teams and front-line health officers say they have not been paid in weeks.

Nothing, though, has raised more eyebrows than the new Kerry Town Ebola clinic, about a half-hour’s drive from the capital, Freetown. The clinic is an impressive campus of blue and white buildings lined up in perfectly straight rows, with all the orderliness of a military camp. It remains quiet, though, without enough trained nurses or hygienists to operate safely at anywhere close to capacity.

Several aid officials said that the Sierra Leonean government had been in a rush to open the clinic, but that the aid group tasked with running it, Save the Children International, had never run a critical-care field hospital. The rows of empty beds have led to some nasty finger-pointing.

Save the Children officials said the government had “begged” them to run the clinic. The government said Britain had made the decision. And the Britons said they had had no choice because no one else wanted the task.

The Save the Children officials said Saturday that they had asked for eight more Ebola patients per day but were receiving only one.

“That place is like a boat without a captain,” a senior international aid official said. “Everybody’s rowing in different directions, and the boat doesn’t move.”

The British military said that it was close to completing several other clinics, but that it would take time, just as it did in Liberia, to turn the crisis around here.

Usually, in big emergencies where many people are in desperate need, the United Nations[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/u/united_nations/index.html?inline=nyt-org] Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs plays a huge role, dividing services into clusters and then coordinating the work of private aid groups within each cluster. Ensuring “a coherent response to emergencies” is its raison d'être[http://www.unocha.org/what-we-do/coordination/overview].

All across the refugee camps and war zones of Sudan, Central African Republic and the Democratic Republic of Congo, to name a few, are legions of young aid workers scrambling around in vests stamped with “OCHA,” as the office is known. But in Sierra Leone right now, there very few are seen. “I have no idea why OCHA isn’t doing this, and I think OCHA has no idea why they’re not doing this,” said Michael von Bertele, the global humanitarian director for Save the Children.

One United Nations official, who was not authorized to speak publicly, said OCHA defined the Ebola crisis as a “systemic medical issue.” “Corporately, this is not a humanitarian emergency,” she said, but conceded that most aid agencies viewed it as one.

The United Nations still seems to be struggling with how to respond to one of the biggest international health crises in decades. After a lackluster start by the World Health Organization, Secretary General Ban Ki-moon established a separate Ebola mission in September to speed up the international response and cut through some of the typical United Nations bureaucracy.

Anthony Banbury, the head of that mission, said the United Nations was helping with crisis management and that OCHA had sent “a number of information officers” to the region. He also said that the Sierra Leonean government was handling coordination “very effectively.”

Many Sierra Leoneans find that laughable, but some said that because the government had declared a state of emergency, they had to speak carefully.

“Everybody knows there are huge gaps,” said Ibrahim Tommy, a human rights campaigner in Freetown. “But nobody can say anything.”

Several journalists and intellectuals have been summoned to Parliament recently to defend their work, and last month a prominent radio host was locked up for 11 days[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/07/world/africa/sierra-leone-reportedly-detains-journalist-for-criticism-of-ebola-response.html] after he asked some questions about the government’s Ebola response. A government spokesman said[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/11/world/africa/sierra-leone-defends-jailing-critic-of-ebola-response.html] that the radio host had been jailed for other reasons, without specifying them, and that there was no repression in Sierra Leone.

The journalist, David Tam-Baryoh, called the experience terrifying. “The government is getting very edgy,” he said.

When asked what grade he would give the government for its handling of Ebola, Mr. Tam-Baryoh giggled nervously.

“Well, if I wasn’t in the country,” he started to say. “But I don’t even want to say that. The powers of emergency could be wrongly used, to put it mildly.”

Jaime Yaya Berry contributed reporting from Freetown, Sierra Leone, Eric Schmitt from Kuwait and Helene Cooper from Washington.

* Despite Aid Push, Ebola Is Raging in Sierra Leone[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/28/world/africa/despite-aid-push-ebola-is-raging-in-sierra-leone.html]

* Sierra Leone to Eclipse Liberia in Ebola Cases[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/27/world/africa/sierra-leone-to-eclipse-liberia-in-ebola-cases.html]

* Sierra Leone Detains Journalist for Criticism of Ebola Response[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/07/world/africa/sierra-leone-reportedly-detains-journalist-for-criticism-of-ebola-response.html]

* Officials Admit a ‘Defeat’ by Ebola in Sierra Leone[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/11/world/africa/officials-admit-a-defeat-by-ebola-in-sierra-leone.html]

* Ebola Help for Sierra Leone Is Nearby, but Delayed on the Docks[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/06/world/africa/sierra-leone-ebola-medical-supplies-delayed-docks.html]

A lab technician from the Sierra Leone Health Ministry with a cooler of blood samples from suspected Ebola patients. Delays in testing are causing serious bottlenecks at treatment centers. | Daniel Berehulak for The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141207eac700231


A
AS EBOLA RAGES, POOR PLANNING THWARTS EFFORTS
By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN
72 words
7 December 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
1
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Aid officials in Sierra Leone say poor coordination among aid groups, government mismanagement and glaring inefficiencies are costing countless lives; situation can be seen clearly in Kerry Town, where 60 of 80 beds in new Ebola clinic are not being used, despite fact that people in the area are dying because they do not have access to clinics. Photo (M)

Photograph

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141211eac70001z


SR
JOURNALISM IN THE TIME OF EBOLA
By MARGARET M SULLIVAN
50 words
7 December 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
8
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Margaret Sullivan The Public Editor column assesses coverage by The New York Times of Ebola crisis in Africa; offers readers a look behind the scenes of what it takes to follow and keep following a story like this. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141213eac70000s


Magazine
My Great-Great-Aunt Discovered Francium. And It Killed Her.
By VERONIQUE GREENWOOD
3887 words
7 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Correction Appended

Just after Christmas of 1938, a young woman named Marguerite Perey — then 29, with a plain, open face, her eyes intent upon her work — sat at a bench in the Radium Institute of Paris, a brick mansion near the Jardin du Luxembourg. In a glass vessel, she examined fluid containing metal salts. She carefully dosed it with lead and hydrogen sulfide, then with barium, causing the solution to separate into different substances. She was in the final stages of purifying actinium, one of the rarest and most dangerous elements yet discovered, from uranium ore. Ten tons of ore yielded just one or two milligrams of actinium; Perey, who joined the institute as a teenager to be the personal technician for Marie Curie, was an expert in its isolation.

The Curie laboratory hired researchers from across Europe, but Perey was a local girl, the youngest of five children of a flour-mill owner in Villemomble, just east of the city. The death of her father had left the family in financial straits. Her mother gave piano lessons to fill the gap, but Perey had to abandon the idea of going to medical school in favor of a vocational college for chemistry technicians. The Curies often hired the top student from the school as an assistant, and Perey, at 19, was called in for an interview. She later described her first impression of Marie Curie: “Without a sound, someone entered like a shadow. It was a woman dressed entirely in black. She had gray hair, taken up in a bun, and wore thick glasses. She conveyed an impression of extreme frailty and paleness.” A secretary, Perey thought — then realized she was in the presence of Curie herself.

Marie Curie was then a figure of almost religious magnetism in France. She had discovered two elements, polonium and radium, with her husband, Pierre; she had coined the word radioactivity and had won two Nobel Prizes. Curie toured the United States twice, meeting with Presidents Warren G. Harding and Herbert Hoover and receiving donations to equip her lab with radium, which was in demand as researchers experimented with its applications in health care. During World War I, she had personally taken the new medical tool of X-rays onto the battlefields, working from a specially fitted truck with her teenage daughter, Irène, as her assistant. After Perey’s audience with Our Lady of Radium (as a newspaper referred to Curie), she recalled: “I left this dark house, persuaded that it was for the first and last time. Everything had seemed melancholy and somber, and I was relieved to think that I would undoubtedly not return there.”

But she was wrong, and several days later she received a letter telling her that she was hired. For a decade, Perey’s day-to-day duties consisted largely of a curious ritual: sifting out pure actinium from all the other components of uranium ore so Curie could study its decay. Perey steeped samples in ammonia, applied acids to them and mixed them with ingredients that would cling only to the substances she wanted. At each step, unwanted elements and contaminants were burned, leached, evaporated or poured away, leaving behind a purer and purer substance. After Curie’s death in 1934, the lab continued its study of actinium under the supervision of Andre Debierne, its discoverer, and Irène Joliot-Curie, Curie’s daughter. It was not until a few years later, however, that Perey first noticed something odd about the actinium she purified, as Jean-Pierre Adloff, a physicist who later worked with her, has recounted. It was emitting unexpected radiation. She worked on it until midnight and eventually pleaded with Debierne for a three-week leave from her normal duties to figure out where the radiation was coming from.

By adding cesium chloride, Perey coaxed the actinium to form crystals; then, through a series of meticulous tests, she laid down the proof that this radiation was something new. Like her mentor, she had discovered an element, which she named francium, in honor of her country. But the story of Marguerite Perey — which I have known in some detail since childhood, because she was my great-great-aunt — ends very differently.

There is a common narrative in science of the tragic genius who suffers for a great reward, and the tale of Curie, who died from exposure to radiation as a result of her pioneering work, is one of the most famous. There is a sense of grandeur in the idea that paying heavily is a means of advancing knowledge. But in truth, you can’t control what it is that you find — whether you’ve sacrificed your health for it, or simply years of your time.

Sixty years before Marguerite Perey began her work at the Radium Institute, Dmitri Mendeleev, a Russian chemist, published his “tentative system of the elements.” Mendeleev’s diagram mapped the substances that could not be broken down into others, the fundamental components of matter. It wasn’t the first time a scientist tried to diagram the elements, but his was the most direct predecessor of the periodic table we use today. When he arranged known elements in a grid by weight, they fell into groups that had similar qualities. Scrutinizing the holes in his diagram, where slots remained for elements not yet discovered, Mendeleev was able to predict what those elements would be like. Below cesium, for instance, he suggested a hypothetical element he dubbed eka-cesium; it was the spot that francium would eventually fill.

Mendeleev predicted that eka-cesium would share some of the properties of its family — the alkali metals. The uses of alkali metals had already begun to be realized. Lithium, discovered in 1817, went on to grease plane engines, build the batteries that today fuel electric cars and become one of the most powerful mood-stabilizing drugs. The identification of sodium and potassium would feed into the science of nutrition. Cesium atoms are at the core of atomic clocks so accurate that had they been set at the time of the dinosaurs, they would be less than a second off today. Though many of the applications came some years after the discoveries, the power of uncovering new forms of matter was clear.

As researchers developed new ways to identify elements over the course of the 19th century, cry after cry sounded in the scientific literature — Gallium! Scandium! Holmium! Thulium! Praseodymium! Scientists soon discovered several elements that Mendeleev predicted. Three decades after Mendeleev published his diagram, a cry came from Pierre and Marie Curie: Polonium! A mere five months later, in December 1898, another call came from the Paris lab: Radium! It was one of a half-dozen elements discovered that year alone.

In this parade of new elements, some gave off radiation, rays or particles released by atoms as they decayed into other elements, known as their daughters. To understand how radioactivity works, think about the structure of an atom. At its core, or nucleus, it has a cluster of particles called protons and neutrons, and around them swirl a cloud of electrons. An atom of uranium 235, for instance, has 92 protons, 92 electrons, and 143 neutrons. But this arrangement is unstable. Soon the uranium will start to shed particles. It might shed two protons and two neutrons, a process called alpha decay, converting it to thorium, element 90. If thorium then turns a neutron into a proton and sheds an electron, called beta-minus decay, it becomes protactinium, element 91. This series of transformations from one element to another is called a decay chain. As the atom progresses down the decay chain, some routes are favored above others. Polonium 215 decays into lead almost all of the time, taking the alpha-decay route. Only a minuscule fraction of Polonium 215 takes the beta-decay route, to become astatine. The time it takes for half a sample of an element to decay, its half-life, can range from fractions of seconds to billions of years.

How quickly an element decayed and how it did so — meaning which of its component parts it shed — became the focus of researchers in radioactivity. Apart from purely scientific insights, there was a hope that radiation could lead to something marvelous. X-rays, a kind of radiation discovered by Wilhelm Roentgen and produced by accelerated electrons, had already been hailed as a major medical breakthrough and, in addition to showing doctors their patients’ insides, were being investigated as a treatment for skin lesions from tuberculosis and lupus. In her 1904 book “Investigations on Radioactive Substances,” Marie Curie wrote that radium had promise, too — diseased skin exposed to it later regrew in a healthy state. Radium’s curious ability to destroy tissue was being turned against cancer, with doctors sewing capsules of radium into the surgical wounds of cancer patients (including Henrietta Lacks, whose cells are used today in research). This enthusiasm for radioactivity was not confined to the doctor’s office. The element was in face creams, tonics, even candy. According to the Encyclopaedia Britannica article that Curie and her daughter wrote on radium in 1926, preliminary experiments suggested that radium could even improve the quality of soil.

And yet from the beginning, there were signs that radiation had sinister powers. In 1901, Henri Becquerel, the first person to observe radioactivity, reported strange burns he received from the vial of radium he carried in his waistcoat pocket. The burns appeared on the Curies’ hands as well. People who worked with X-rays at the beginning of the 20th century had a known tendency to lose their hair and develop burns on their skin and even cancer. In 1904, Clarence Dally, who was Thomas Edison’s X-ray assistant, died of cancer after having both his arms amputated to try to keep it from spreading. For all its anticipated promise in battling cancer, radiation was also clearly carcinogenic.

Perhaps the most tragic demonstration of this involved workers at the United States Radium Corporation factory in Orange, N.J., which in 1917 began hiring young women to paint watch faces with glow-in-the-dark radium paint. The workers were told that the paint was harmless and were encouraged to lick the paintbrushes to make them pointy enough to inscribe small numbers. In the years that followed, the women began to suffer ghoulish physical deterioration. Their jaws melted and ballooned into masses of tumors larger than fists, and cancers riddled their bodies. They developed anemia and necrosis. The sensational court case started — and won — by the dying Radium Girls, as they were called, is a landmark in the history of occupational health. It was settled in June 1928, four months before Marguerite Perey arrived at the Radium Institute to begin a 30-year career of heavy exposure to radiation.

Through all that, little seems to have changed at the institute, where a long tradition of lax safety practices continued. Two former Radium Institute chemists died in quick succession from brief, violent illnesses (“A New Victim of Science,” read a 1925 newspaper announcement of the second death). In 1927, Sonia Cotelle, a Radium Institute chemist who worked with polonium, began losing her hair rapidly. Cotelle later died from radiation exposure. Although radiation’s connection to cancer was known and the lab’s own employees had clearly suffered, the Curies made few adjustments to protocol. Marie Curie’s principal adaptations were to ask scientists to submit to blood tests and to encourage workers to take short breaks in the garden, which provided no real protection. When a journalist asked about the watch painters in New Jersey, she suggested that they eat calf’s liver to combat anemia. The great work went on.

In her years of working for the Curies, Marguerite Perey had not had an education beyond her technician’s training, but after her discovery of francium, she was given a grant to study for her graduate degree. In 1946, she defended her Ph.D. thesis at the Sorbonne. Her brother Jacques and his son, Bernard, then 15, were at her defense. Bernard, now 84 and living in Halifax, Nova Scotia, told me about it this fall. They entered the hall through Place Paul-Painlevé, named after a mathematician who became prime minister of France. “Some very wise-looking men asked her questions,” Bernard said wryly. He recalls that she answered every one correctly.

In general, awe suffuses the family folklore on Perey. While we were talking on the phone, Bernard’s wife, Colette, chimed in to say that the first person in the family Bernard told her about was Marguerite. “He showed me a picture of her and also showed me the table, and francium, the one she discovered,” she said. Bernard’s granddaughter recently had a moment of reflected glory in her elementary-school class, he related, when the teacher, who had just learned of the girl’s connection, told the children, “We have someone famous with us today,” and went on to teach a lesson on the periodic table.

When I was in sixth grade, I did a report on francium myself. I was proud of Marguerite in that vague way you might be of prominent relatives, though they may be distant or long dead. The shape of a scientific life was familiar to me then: My grandfather Francis is a nuclear physicist who worked at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, built as a secret Manhattan Project facility. My grandmother was also a nuclear physicist at the lab, my mother is a futurist, my father is an ecologist and my sisters are, today, an engineer and a neuroscientist. To uncover the nature of the physical world and learn its ways is of unquestionable value to us. When Marguerite’s name came up occasionally, we all seemed to experience the quiet thrill of gratification that, in our clan of professional truth-seekers, one of us had achieved some measure of scientific immortality. But as I grew older, her legend took on a slightly different shape.

Perey, like Curie, had great ambitions for her discovery. In 1949, she was made the head of the department of nuclear chemistry at the University of Strasbourg, where she began to explore the biological effects of the element. “It is my great hope that francium will be useful for the establishment of an early diagnosis of cancer,” Perey wrote. “My unconditional wish would be to accomplish this task someday.” She published experiments showing that it gathered in tumors more quickly than in healthy tissue. But before long, she grew sick.

We know now that alpha and beta particles emitted in radiation attack DNA and that the mutations they cause can lead to cancer. Ingested radioactive elements can concentrate in the bones, where they continue their decay, in effect poisoning someone for as long as that person lives. By the time Perey made her discovery, she was already heavily contaminated. She spent the last 15 years of her life in treatment for a gruesome bone cancer that spread throughout her body, claiming her eyesight, pieces of her hand and most of the years in which she had planned to study francium. As the disease progressed, she warned her students of the horrible consequences of radiation exposure. Francis, my grandfather, says he recalls hearing that when she walked into labs with radiation counters in her later years, they would go off.

In biographies of Marie Curie, the dangerous anemia she contracted from her work sometimes sounds romantic, like the illness of a tubercular poet. (Indeed, her journey to the sanitarium in the Alps where she died was undertaken because doctors thought she had tuberculosis.) But Geoff Rayner-Canham, co-author of a book on early female radiochemists, “A Devotion to Their Science,” feels that there was something somewhat grotesque about the Curies’ behavior, especially concerning the safety of those who worked in their lab. Speaking of Perey and her compatriots, who followed the Curies’ lead, Rayner-Canham says, “They literally did sacrifice their lives on the altar of radioactivity.”

The more you read about how research progressed in the Radium Institute, the less romantic the story seems. Several potent accounts come from Elizabeth Rona, a chemist who worked in various European radioactivity labs. She wrote of a lab assistant, Catherine Chamie, who transported radioactive sources to and from a safe each day on a cart, shielded poorly by lead bricks; Chamie later died from exposure. One day, Curie let Rona watch as she casually burned off a gas byproduct emitted by a flask of radium. The gas exploded, shattering the flask; neither wore protective gear. Rona records a litany of radioactivity researchers who followed Chamie, their lungs, hands and bones falling apart. The thumbs, forefingers and ring fingers of their left hands were especially prone to damage, because of the way they were exposed to the radioactive substances they poured from flask to flask without gloves.

Bryce DeWitt, the husband and colleague of Cecile DeWitt-Morette, a physicist who worked in the lab in the 1940s, related that Irène Joliot-Curie “had a penchant for asserting that anyone who worried about radiation hazards was not a dedicated scientist.” There are photographs of Joliot-Curie sucking a fluid up a glass tube to move it from one container to another, a practice called mouth pipetting. The historian Anne Fellinger has asserted that the substance is polonium — known to most people today as the radioactive poison used to murder the former Russian spy Alexander Litvinenko in 2006.

Over the years, historians have pondered what drove the Curies to throw caution so thoroughly to the wind. Perhaps it was inconceivable to them that the benefits of their research would not outweigh the risks to themselves and their employees. In a field in which groundbreaking discoveries were being made and the competition might arrive there first, speed was put above other concerns, Rona noted. But you almost get the impression that in the Curie lab, dedication to science was demonstrated by a willingness to poison yourself — as if what made a person’s research meaningful were the sacrifices made in the effort to learn something new.

It turns out that at any given moment, there is far less than a gram of francium on earth: only a tiny fraction of actinium decays in a way that produces francium, and after a few fleeting minutes, it winks out of existence again. Perey, for all her suffering, discovered an element that almost doesn’t exist.

Her sacrifice filled a hole in the periodic table, but it did not change cancer medicine, as she had hoped. And after francium, elements were no longer discovered first in nature but were increasingly made artificially. They became curiosities — though still significant to physicists — rather than insights that changed the world. Science moved on, as it does; in 20 years’ time, much of the work that makes headlines now — neuroscience, string theory — may have a totally different meaning from what it does today.

In general, scientists whose risks pay off in the ways they expect are the ones who become the most famous, who get their stories written in romantic and memorable terms. This is particularly true if those expectations are grandiose and the risks they take are tragic. But such people represent a vanishingly small part of those who dedicate their lives to science. “We have this selection bias on when it does work out in an extraordinary way,” Lynette Shaw, a sociologist who studies how we assign value to ideas, objects and people, told me. Perey’s story “gets to this deep question about what’s the value in doing things? Is it the end result? Or is it just because it has inherent worth to pursue them?”

We should celebrate scientists not solely for their accomplishments but also for their courage and the tenacity required to discover anything at all. There are brave people out there working right now. They are brave not because they are killing themselves slowly or leaping from airplanes or catching rare tropical diseases, although scientists have done all those things. They are brave because of the intense emotional risks of trying to do something no one has done before by following your own lead. Radiation is a potent allegory for human life. Everything is always, inevitably falling apart; we are all in arrested decay. Our greatest achievements may become at best footnotes; few people remember us; we can’t know what will eventually come of our work.

Luis Orozco is a professor of physics with the Joint Quantum Institute at the University of Maryland, where he studies the forces that hold together nuclei. He is 56 and comes from Guadalajara, Mexico, has an easy laugh and enjoys explaining the finer points of atomic structure. He and his collaborators are among the few people today who conduct research on francium.

“We make it these days in an accelerator,” Orozco says. They bombard uranium carbide with protons, and it separates into a variety of elements, one of which happens to be francium. The amounts are tiny, and after a few short minutes they are gone. But it’s enough time to perform some very specialized experiments, which are the focus of Orozco’s research.

Orozco and his colleagues make francium because they think it is a perfect candidate to help understand the force behind beta decay. It has a heavy nucleus, which means there are many opportunities for particles to interact. It can be easily trapped, which is not true of other elements they might use. And it also emits and absorbs light at similar frequencies, which is useful for the experimenters. Someday, Orozco hopes, as the years pass and data are added to the compendium of human knowledge, francium will help researchers better understand the structure of matter.

But it won’t help cure cancer. When I bring up Marguerite Perey’s ambitions for her discovery, Orozco replies: “Oh! No.” He sounds surprised at the idea.

Veronique Greenwood is a writer based in Boston. This is her first feature article for the magazine.

Correction: December 21, 2014, Sunday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Dec. 7 about the discovery of the element francium described incorrectly an incident involving Marie Curie and her assistant Elizabeth Rona. Curie was burning of a gaseous byproduct of radium, not radon, which is a noble gas and therefore chemically stable. And the article misstated the beta-minus decay process. In beta-minus decay, a neutron is transformed into a proton, not the opposite.

* Why Are So Few Blockbuster Drugs Invented Today?[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/16/magazine/why-are-there-so-few-new-drugs-invented-today.html]

* Treating Ebola Without Fear[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/09/magazine/treating-ebola-without-fear.html]

Sonia Cotelle (left) and Marguerite Perey (second from left) at the Curie laboratory in 1930. Each died from radiation exposure. | Musée Curie/ACJC Collection | Perey in 1938. | Musée Curie/ACJC Collection | Perey (left) and Cotelle in the garden at the Radium Institute in 1930. | Musée Curie/ACJC Collection | Researchers in the Curie laboratory's library in 1930. Seated, from left: Perey, L. Razet, Isabelle Archinard and Cotelle. Standing, from left: André Régnier, Alexis Yakimach, R. Grégoire, R. Galabert, T. Tcheng and Frédéric Joliot-Curie. | Musée Curie/ACJC Collection

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141203eac700335


Metropolitan Desk; SECTA
Quotation of the Day
58 words
8 December 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
2
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The really tough part was the thought that he was going to die and that I was not going to be able to touch him before he left the earth.

PAT CROZIER,

on her son Dr. Ian Crozier, who was successfully treated for Ebola at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. [A18]

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141208eac80005t


Times Insider
Daily Clip Report
JORDAN COHEN
178 words
8 December 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
Good morning. Here is Daily Clip Report, a collection of articles about The Times and the media sent by email each morning to senior executives and newsroom editors. The email is produced by the Corporate Communications Department at The Times.

Journalism in the Time of Ebola[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/07/opinion/sunday/journalism-in-the-time-of-ebola.html] The New York Times – 12/6

Quartz hires Xana Antunes, former editor of New York Post[http://www.capitalnewyork.com/article/media/2014/12/8558032/quartz-hires-xana-antunes-former-editor-em-new-york-postem] Capital New York – 12/7

Crafting a sustainable New Republic[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/chris-hughes-crafting-a-sustainable-new-republic/2014/12/07/2138faf6-7e28-11e4-9f38-95a187e4c1f7_story.html] The Washington Post – 12/7

USA Today kills weekend magazine[http://www.poynter.org/news/mediawire/306209/usa-today-kills-weekend-magazine/]USA Today – 12/5

Rolling Stone Tries to Regroup After Campus Rape Article Is Disputed[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/08/business/media/rolling-stone-tries-to-regroup-after-campus-rape-article-is-disputed.html] The New York Times – 12/7

Vox and Outbrain: A Tale of Two Publishing Worlds[http://contextly.com/blog/2014/12/vox-outbrain-tale-two-publishing-worlds/] Contextly – 12/7

5 things we learned about digital video in 2014[http://digiday.com/publishers/5-things-learned-digital-video-2014/] Digiday – 12/8

Revealed: The Winners of Adweek’s 2014 Hot List[http://www.adweek.com/news/press/winners-adweeks-2014-hot-list-are-revealed-161763] Adweek – 12/8

Google’s Larry Page tops MediaGuardian 100 power list[http://www.theguardian.com/media/2014/dec/08/google-larry-page-tops-mediaguardian-100-power-list] The Guardian – 12/8

A Q&A With Steven Greenhouse, One of America’s Last Labor Reporters[http://gawker.com/a-q-a-with-steven-greenhouse-one-of-americas-last-labo-1667237950] Gawker – 12/

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141208eac8001rx


A
FIGHTING EBOLA, NEARLY TO DEATH
By DENISE GRADY
79 words
8 December 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
1
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Dr Ian Crozier, in interview, discusses his near-death experience after contracting Ebola virus while treating patients in Sierra Leone; Crozier, who until recently remained anonymous, spent 40 days battling disease after being airlifted to Emory University Hospital in Atlanta; relates some of hardships and dangers that have confronted those who have volunteered to fight epidemic, which has claimed lives of more than 330 health care workers. Photos (M)

Combination

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141209eac800028


A
DALLAS PHYSICIAN IN NATION'S FIRST EBOLA CASE ACKNOWLEDGES ERRORS IN TREATMENT
By DAVID MONTGOMERY
59 words
8 December 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
18
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Dr Joseph Howard Meier, emergency room doctor at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas, acknowledges his error in misdiagnosing first case of Ebola in the United States, in his first public comments on treatment of patient Thomas Eric Duncan, who later died. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141209eac80002x


Health
Dallas Physician in Nation’s First Ebola Case Discusses Treatment of Patient
By DAVID MONTGOMERY
682 words
8 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Correction Appended

AUSTIN, Tex. — In a report published by The Dallas Morning News[http://www.dallasnews.com/ebola/headlines/20141206-er-doctor-discusses-role-in-ebola-patients-initial-misdiagnosis.ece] on Sunday, the Texas emergency room physician who misdiagnosed the first case of Ebola in the United States acknowledged his diagnosis error in his first public comments on the treatment of the patient, Thomas Eric Duncan, who later died.

“I was unaware of a 103-degree fever[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/symptoms/fever/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier],” one Ebola symptom, the doctor, Joseph Howard Meier, wrote in answer to questions by the newspaper. “It appears in the chart, but I did not see it.”

Asked whether he would have changed his evaluation if he had known that Mr. Duncan had traveled from Liberia, the doctor responded that he would have contacted the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and begun an Ebola assessment. “But the likelihood would have still been low since Mr. Duncan denied any sick contacts,” he said. The hospital has acknowledged[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/04/us/containing-ebola-cdc-troops-west-africa.html] that the nurses and doctors in that initial visit had access to the fact that Mr. Duncan had arrived from Africa.

The doctor said his care was appropriate based on what he knew at the time, the newspaper reported.

Although Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas, where Mr. Duncan was treated, has been under heavy scrutiny[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/16/us/infamy-for-dallas-hospital-where-virus-spread.html?module=Search&mabReward=relbias&], the doctor has received little attention. Dr. Meier declined to comment when first approached in October, but last week he agreed through a lawyer to answer written questions.

A spokesman for Texas Health Resources, the organization that oversees the hospital, said he “didn’t have any issues” with the Dallas Morning News article. “I think we’ve seen a tremendous amount of support from the community,” said Wendell Watson, director of public relations for Texas Health Resources. “We didn’t particularly see a lot of value in rehashing this story.”

Mr. Duncan started showing symptoms on Sept. 24 and the next day sought medical care at Texas Health Presbyterian. Dr. Meier examined him, checked his vital signs and ordered tests before diagnosing an inflammation of the sinuses, prescribing antibiotics[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/health/diseasesconditionsandhealthtopics/antibiotics/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] and sending Mr. Duncan home.

His condition worsened, and Mr. Duncan was taken back to the hospital by ambulance on Sept. 28. A blood test confirmed the presence of Ebola, a often-lethal virus that has been contracted by thousands of West Africans. He died Oct. 8. The newspaper quoted Dr. Meier, 53, as saying the experience was “a little bit like getting struck by lightning, but mild in comparison to what Mr. Duncan’s family has gone through in losing a loved one to Ebola.”

“It’s very easy to make a diagnosis of any condition after the patient’s medical evaluation confirms the final diagnosis,” he wrote. “Unfortunately, such 20/20 hindsight is not available to medical professionals caring for patients in real time.”

“As medical professionals we aspire to perfection in the diagnosis and treatment of all our patients and have regrets when an incorrect diagnosis occurs,” wrote Dr. Meier, who continues to work at Texas Health hospitals.

Correction: December 10, 2014, Wednesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about the Texas physician who misdiagnosed the first case of Ebola in the United States paraphrased incorrectly from written responses the doctor, Joseph Howard Meier, gave to questions. While Dr. Meier acknowledged that his initial diagnosis of Thomas Eric Duncan was inaccurate, he said his care was appropriate based on the information he had at the time; he did not say that he erred in his treatment. The error was repeated in a headline. The article also misstated the travel information that Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas received from Mr. Duncan during his initial visit to the emergency room. He told health care workers that he had been in Africa; he did not specify Liberia. That error also appeared in a front-page article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/04/us/containing-ebola-cdc-troops-west-africa.html] on Oct. 4 about the hospital’s having changed its account of how it handled the case.

* An Ebola Doctor’s Return From the Edge of Death [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/08/health/ebola-doctor-ian-crozier-return-from-the-edge-of-death-.html]

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141208eac8000gv


Health
An Ebola Doctor’s Return From the Edge of Death
By DENISE GRADY
2363 words
8 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Correction Appended

PHOENIX — The medical record, from an Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] case, made for grim reading, but Dr. Ian Crozier could not put it down. Within days of the first symptom, a headache[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/symptoms/headache/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier], the patient was fighting for his life. He became delirious, his heartbeat grew ragged, his blood teemed with the virus, and his lungs, liver and kidneys began to fail.

“It’s a horrible-looking chart,” Dr. Crozier said.

It was his own. Dr. Crozier, 44, contracted the disease in Sierra Leone[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/sierraleone/index.html?inline=nyt-geo] while treating Ebola patients in the government hospital in Kenema[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/08/world/africa/dont-touch-the-walls-ebola-fears-infect-hospital.html]. He was evacuated to Emory University Hospital in Atlanta on Sept. 9, the third American with Ebola to be airlifted there from West Africa. He had a long, agonizing illness, with 40 days in the hospital and dark stretches when his doctors and his family feared he might sustain brain damage or die. His identity was kept secret at his request, to protect his family’s privacy.

Now, for the first time, he is speaking out. His reason, he said, is to thank Emory for the extraordinary care he received, and to draw attention to the continuing epidemic[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html]. He and his family granted their first interviews to The New York Times, and gave permission to interview his physicians.

His account offers glimpses of the hardships and dangers that have confronted doctors and nurses who volunteered to fight an epidemic that has claimed the lives of more than 330 health care workers — most of them African — and of the desperate need that has drawn them to the front lines. Dr. Crozier told of three brothers, just 4, 5 and 11, who fought for their lives on his ward in Kenema. Not long after, he lay near death in an isolation room at Emory, with his mother reading him poetry through an intercom.

Dr. Crozier, soft-spoken and genial, is now on the mend in Phoenix, where his parents and sister live. But the disease has taken its toll. Six-foot-5 and 220 pounds before he got Ebola, he has lost 30 pounds, much of it muscle. He tires easily, but has begun a grueling physical therapy[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/health/diseasesconditionsandhealthtopics/physicaltherapy/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] program to rebuild wasted muscles.

“Ian was by far the sickest patient with Ebola virus that we’ve cared for at Emory,” said Dr. Jay B. Varkey, an infectious-disease specialist.

Doctors say his recovery has taught them that aggressive treatments, even life-support measures like ventilators and dialysis[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/test/dialysis/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier], can save some Ebola patients. Dr. Bruce S. Ribner, who leads the Emory team, said that until recently the general practice was not to bother intubating Ebola patients or put them on dialysis, because if they got that sick they were going to die.

“One of the things Ian taught us was, guess what, you can get sick enough to need those interventions and you can still walk out of the hospital,” Dr. Ribner said. “I think it has sent a message to our colleagues around the world.”

Young Brothers in Peril

Dr. Crozier was born in Masvingo, Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe), but his family moved to the United States when he was 10, and he became an American citizen. He went to medical school at Vanderbilt University on a scholarship, specializing in infectious diseases[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/specialtopic/travelers-guide-to-avoiding-infectious-diseases/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier].

He was always drawn back to Africa. He was living in Uganda, treating patients with H.I.V.[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/aids/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] and training doctors at the Infectious Diseases Institute[http://www.idi-makerere.com/] in Kampala, when Ebola broke out in West Africa. He wanted to help.

“Anyone who was on the ground in Africa and not in West Africa, you would think, maybe we’re missing the bus, missing something remarkable,” he said. “And my skills meet the need.”

Dr. Crozier signed on with the World Health Organization — expenses only, no pay — and by August he was in Kenema. He planned to stay three or four weeks.

It was even more wrenching than he had imagined — the sights, the sounds, the smells, the steady stream of deaths. There were often 60 to 80 patients, sometimes more, suspected and confirmed cases, from all over the country. They arrived day and night.

Blood, stool and vomit were ever-present though cleaners mopped with chlorine several times a day. Choruses of delirious patients with bloodshot, eerily vacant eyes would shout “Doctor! Doctor!” over and over. Some were too sick to clean or feed themselves, and there were never enough staff members to tend to them. A patient might lie in one bed and a corpse in the next, waiting to be disinfected, bagged and taken away.

“Those isolation wards are horrible places,” Dr. Crozier said.

But there were moments of grace. Mothers whose babies had died would feed children who were orphaned or alone.

“Childless parents took care of parentless children,” he said.

The protective gear required to enter the ward — hood, masks, rubber boots, goggles, double gloves, Tyvek suit — was stifling. No one could wear it for more than an hour without becoming dangerously overheated. Dr. Crozier would go into the ward two or three times a day for as long he could stand it. When he came out to cool off, he would pour the sweat out of his boots.

One night, the three young brothers were brought in. All were infected. Their mother had died, and their father was absent.

“I didn’t think they’d survive,” Dr. Crozier said.

The oldest, Victor, 11, was also the sickest. Dr. Crozier, the oldest of four children in his family, saw a bit of himself in Victor. The boy had taken on the role of father, and even when he was lying on a mattress on the floor, soiled by vomit and diarrhea[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/symptoms/diarrhea/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier], the younger ones, Shaku and Ibrahim, would not leave him.

“They were this little band of brothers,” Dr. Crozier said. Sometimes he wished he could rip off his protective gear and hold them.

The last thing he would do at night was make sure they and the other children were fed.

Returning to the ward each morning, he kept expecting to find that one or more of the brothers had died. But they kept surprising him.

“They just sort of pushed each other through it,” he said.

They recovered enough to race around the ward with other children — including two boys named Success and Courage — playing, laughing and making a nuisance of themselves, Dr. Crozier said.

“In such a dark place, they were little cracks of joy,” he said. The brothers survived, but others like them did not.

Many local nurses had contracted Ebola and died in Kenema. Aid workers from other countries also became infected, and Dr. Crozier arranged medical evacuation flights for several of them. He never dreamed he would become a passenger on that plane.

On the morning of Saturday, Sept. 6, during rounds on the ward, he developed a fever[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/symptoms/fever/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] and a headache. He isolated himself in his hotel, hoping he had malaria[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/malaria/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier]. A colleague brought equipment so that Dr. Crozier could draw his own blood for an Ebola test.

She called him the next morning, crying: His Ebola test was positive.

He had no idea how he had become infected.

The plane picked him up on Monday. The World Health Organization paid for the flight, and his medical care. Neither W.H.O. nor Emory would provide an estimate of the cost, but a spokesman for Emory acknowledged that treating Ebola patients was very expensive.

Dr. Crozier took pictures of himself during the flight as his face swelled and he broke out in a rash. It may have been a way to disconnect from fear, he said.

“I had seen seven, eight, nine, 10 people a day die from what I had,” he said, adding, “If I had stayed in Kenema, I would have been dead in a week.”

Deteriorating Condition

He has no memory of the three weeks after he arrived at Emory. The isolation unit there was built 12 years ago at the request of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/c/centers_for_disease_control_and_prevention/index.html?inline=nyt-org], which is less than a mile away.

Dr. Varkey, the infectious-disease specialist, said there were warning signs early on that Dr. Crozier might become severely ill. The viral load in his blood was extremely high, more than 100 times that of the other patients Emory had treated. And he was becoming delirious, a sign of encephalitis[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/encephalitis/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier]. Doctors do not know why some patients become so much sicker than others. Dr. Crozier’s age may have worked against him: People over 40 tend to have worse outcomes than younger ones.

His family and girlfriend filled with dread as they watched him decline. They could not enter his room, but could see him through a window and talk to him over an intercom. His temperature was 104 degrees. His hands shook violently. He spent more and more time sleeping, and sank into delirium[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/delirium/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier], his mind still in Kenema.

The family had been warned that Ebola often causes such intense diarrhea that patients can lose eight or 10 quarts of fluid a day, and Dr. Crozier was heading toward that stage. He would be pumped full of fluids and salts to prevent dehydration[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/dehydration/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier], which kills many Ebola patients. The family thought that once he got through that phase, he would start to improve.

Instead he got worse. By Friday he was struggling to breathe, his chest heaving. The sight tore at his relatives. On Sunday morning, he was placed on a ventilator.

“It seemed to signify final stages,” said his sister, Anne.

A nurse who had also been infected in Kenema, Will Pooley — whose evacuation Dr. Crozier had supervised — flew to Emory from England and donated several units of plasma. Survivors have antibodies that may help fight off the virus[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/04/health/use-of-ebola-survivors-blood-as-possible-treatment-gains-support.html], and a number of patients have been given such transfusions. Dr. Crozier’s virus levels began dropping, but his kidneys failed, and he was connected to a dialysis machine. He had swelled up with 20 pounds of excess fluid, and all that his relatives could see through the window were tubes, machines and a bloated face they barely recognized. He had begun having abnormal heart rhythms[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/arrhythmias/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier]. Doctors warned that he might not survive.

He was on the ventilator for 12 days, and on dialysis for 24. Members of his family read him emails from friends, played his favorite music and told him over and over that he would be all right. They gave his nurses dozens of family photos to tape to his walls.

His mother, Pat, spent most nights at the hospital. She spoke to her son, hummed hymns and every day read him a poem that her brother in Zimbabwe, the poet and novelist John Eppel, had written for him. The poem recalled Dr. Crozier as a bald, bigheaded boy who waged war with syringa berries, “the stick-breaker, the toddler I carried on my shoulders up and down the dirt tracks.”

Mrs. Crozier had been a nurse-midwife[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/health/diseasesconditionsandhealthtopics/midwives/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier], and her training made her painfully aware of signs that her son was deteriorating.

“The really tough part was the thought that he was going to die and that I was not going to be able to touch him before he left the earth,” she said. “So he was either going to go in a body bag to the C.D.C. for research, or he was going to be incinerated rapidly.”

Work Lies Ahead

He began to recover physically. But there were ominous signs that he might have suffered brain damage: His eyes wandered in different directions, and he took a long time to wake up when his sedation was withdrawn.

“I thought we’d be discharging him to a nursing home as a cognitively impaired person,” said Dr. Colleen Kraft, one of his doctors. She said his difficult course had left her in a “dark psychological place” that for a while had made her feel hesitant about treating more Ebola patients, for fear that they might be as sick as Dr. Crozier.

When he finally did open his eyes at the end of September, a few days after his 44th birthday, he looked around the room in a way that reminded his sister, Anne, of a newborn baby. She spoke softly through the intercom, as if he were a child. Her voice, reassuring him that he was all right, is the first thing he remembers.

At first, he had trouble making conversation. But he grilled doctors about his lab results, so the family knew his mind was intact.

There are scarlike lesions on his retinas, and it is not clear whether they are getting better or worse. Though people around him do not notice it, he says his mind is not working as fast as it should, and he sometimes has trouble thinking of the word he wants to say.

“It’s a fear,” he said. “Am I going to be myself again, completely?”

Dr. Crozier hopes to return to West Africa by February or March to help treat more Ebola patients. Survivors are thought to be immune to the strain that infected them, so he figures he has built-in protection.

“There’s still a great deal left to be done,” he said.

Correction: December 11, 2014, Thursday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about Dr. Ian Crozier, the third American with Ebola to be airlifted to Emory University Hospital in Atlanta from West Africa, misidentified his birthplace in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe). He was born in Masvingo — not in Bulawayo, which is where he grew up.

* Dallas Doctor in Ebola Case Say Treatment Based on What He Knew at Time[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/08/us/dallas-physician-in-nations-first-ebola-case-acknowledges-errors-in-treatment.html]

* Liberian President’s Ban on Rallies Is Seen as Political[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/08/world/africa/liberian-presidents-ban-on-rallies-is-seen-as-political.html]

* As Ebola Rages, Poor Planning Thwarts Efforts [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/07/world/africa/as-ebola-rages-in-sierra-leone-poor-planning-thwarts-efforts.html]

Dr. Ian Crozier with children he helped save in Sierra Leone. | Dr. Crozier, back center, with a group of Ebola survivors and a nurse at the government hospital in Kenema, Sierra Leone. | Dr. Crozier last week in Phoenix, where he is recuperating after an Ebola infection that nearly killed him. | Nick Cote for The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141207eac8004mr


A
LIBERIAN PRESIDENT'S BAN ON RALLIES IS SEEN AS POLITICAL
By CLAIR MACDOUGALL and SHERI FINK
61 words
8 December 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
3
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Anger builds over decree by Liberian Pres Ellen Johnson Sirleaf banning all political rallies in Monrovia in attempt to prevent further spread of Ebola; critics allege that true motive was to promote victory for Sirleaf's son Robert in hotly contested Senate race. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141209eac80002j


Foreign Desk; SECTA
Liberian President's Ban on Rallies Is Seen as Political
By CLAIR MacDOUGALL and SHERI FINK; Clair MacDougall reported from Monrovia, and Sheri Fink from New York, Monrovia and Lofa County, Liberia.
798 words
8 December 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
3
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
MONROVIA, Liberia -- Anger has been building for days over a decree by President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf of Liberia that bans all political rallies in Monrovia, the capital, which she said had been meant to prevent the further spread of Ebola.

Critics allege her real motivation was to promote a victory for her son, Robert, in a hotly contested Senate race against George Weah, a former soccer star, presidential aspirant and opponent of Mrs. Sirleaf.

The Senate election, already postponed once because of the Ebola epidemic, has been rescheduled for Dec. 16, and there is a chance it could be postponed again by Liberia's Supreme Court on Monday.

Mrs. Sirleaf, speaking in an interview late last month at her presidential mansion in Monrovia, said the elections should go forward as scheduled, in part to help avert a constitutional crisis. ''By January, 50 percent of the Senate would have no mandate,'' she said.

However, she expressed concern about the risks of mass gatherings that could spread Ebola just as Liberia, one of the three West African countries at the center of the outbreak, had begun to show signs of gaining momentum in fighting it.

Mrs. Sirleaf said she was particularly troubled by a rally held on Nov. 28 for Mr. Weah, in which thousands of young supporters crammed together for hours along Monrovia's main thoroughfare. ''Those people are interacting and interacting without caution, so anyone there who is infected can easily pass it to dozens of others without knowing it,'' she said. ''We have to have more rigorous containment of the campaigning process.''

The Supreme Court is considering petitions challenging both the elections themselves and Mrs. Sirleaf's order. It had previously put a stay on campaigning, and on Saturday it temporarily blocked the executive order until arguments are heard.

In a twist, Mrs. Sirleaf's son filed one of the petitions against the order, since it also prohibits his supporters from gathering en masse. ''It is not in favor of candidates like us who have not held our rallies,'' Jacob Kabakole, one of Mr. Sirleaf's senior advisers, said in an interview.

Mr. Weah's party, the Congress for Democratic Change, ''will not be abiding by the unlawful act of the executive,'' Wilson Tarpeh, Mr. Weah's campaign manager, said in an interview.

Regardless of political allegiances, the prospect of elections has genuinely concerned those most involved in fighting Ebola.

In Foya district, where the outbreak began, officials discussed last month how to reduce the risks of campaign events known for their volatile mixture of youth and palm wine. ''If I had my way, I'd postpone elections until Ebola is out, because it's going to be very difficult to control,'' said Tennyson Falkornia, the district superintendent.

Some health officials were shaken by the physical contact they witnessed during the recent rally. ''We are in deep trouble,'' said one of them in a call to the country's Ebola incident manager, Tolbert Nyenswah.

Last week the Health Ministry, along with partners including Unicef and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, devised a list of ''responsible campaigning and election messages'' for candidates to convey, including: ''If someone is sick, they need treatment quick quick!''

''Though we have a health crisis, the state has to function,'' Mr. Nyenswah said Sunday.

The C.D.C. provided input on voting site guidelines last month, according to Jana L. Telfer, a communication officer for the agency in Liberia. The C.D.C. suggested that participants with fevers and other signs of Ebola be excluded from election activities and questioned how personnel would enforce a three-foot separation standard for voter lines.

''Let's keep our fingers crossed that we don't see a bump in cases in Monrovia and wonder if it was related to this mass gathering,'' said Dr. Jordan W. Tappero, deputy incident manager for the C.D.C.'s Ebola response, in a phone interview. He added that people without symptoms or a fever were not infectious.

Jacob Hughes, founder and chief executive of Hughes Development Inc., a consulting firm advising the Health Ministry, suggested that banning rallies could also dampen tensions between the candidates' supporters. ''Liberia's a very volatile country still,'' he said.

J. Peter Pham, director of the Africa Center at the Atlantic Council in Washington, said the president's decree feeds into lingering distrust of the government.

''The impression is left that it is politically motivated, precisely because of Weah's large support, precisely because of who his rival is and exactly who the president is,'' he said.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141208eac800052


Op-Ed Columnist
Opinion
Annus Mirabilis 2014
By ROGER COHEN
562 words
9 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
(With apologies to Philip Larkin and John Betjeman)

At this year’s end let me tell you

What it is that’s on my mind

When the killing fields of Syria

Chill the hearts of all mankind

As my critics are seldom shy

Allow this columnist a cry.

The world has never seemed more fragile

Bombs, beheadings unrestrained,

Annexation, and Ebola,

We can’t afford the next Ukraine.

Wars get going on the fly

Remember children also die.

So Mr. Putin, hand it back,

Jihadis, still your reckless guns,

Brutal killers, down your weapons

Blood is wasted when it runs.

Every desperate refugee

Rebukes some mindless fantasy.

America, restore your greatness

Remember trust is quick to break

Fix the politics, break the logjam,

Stop the lobbyists on the take.

Use power wisely but use it still:

U.S. weakness can also kill.

For those who can breathe from coast to coast

America’s truth chants in the streets

Garner and Brown, two less by the tree

NYC and Ferguson rocked from their sleep

“No justice, no peace” and a search for good cops.

Take a deep breath for those who could not.

Europeans, stop the blame game,

A free lunch moral fiber robs.

There’s no justice to a system

Where kids lose hope of getting jobs.

Austerity has had its day:

Europe demands another way.

China wants to have it both ways,

Join the world and jail its foes,

Fight corruption but hide the Web,

Ignore that opposition grows.

Capitalism, you say, is fine —

But freedom hates a party line.

An open world is what we have

Technology has done its stuff:

Given us a lonely planet

Where nobody can get enough.

Funny how all this progress

Generates prodigious stress.

So pause a moment in this season

Set devices all aside

Watch your daughter comb her hair out

Take your son out for a ride

Gaze at stars and tides and peaks

In their constancy truth speaks.

Forget the Dow, the price of gold

Let emails accumulate

Love it is that gets remembered

Profit has a fleeter fate.

Take it from a journalist:

Haste is the devil of all we miss.

Take this, too, for what it’s worth:

News is bad as bad news sells.

There’s a lot of it about

From ISIS slaughter to seas that swell.

But don’t forget how far we are

From Verdun and Hiroshima.

We walk on corpses, such is life,

Irrepressible as the sap,

History gives us little wisdom,

Nations fall into the same old traps.

What comes next is hard to see,

But this early century

Offers hope, if hope we seize,

Grasp the bonds that bind us all.

Hedgies, in your prodigious wealth,

Browsing at the shopping-mall,

Recall the poorest of this earth,

Jobless, roofless, hurt from birth.

As for religions —

Paris vaut bien une messe —

Just because your God is different

I won’t love you any less

Even if I can’t resist

Loving most a Darwinist!

So warm wishes to one and all

Another year is laid to rest.

Search is rising, journalists falling,

The New Republic ripped to shreds.

Still, I’ll raise a glass to you

For granting one weary hack his due.

You can follow me on Twitter or join me on Facebook.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141208eac9001rz


World
Unicef Calls 2014 One of Worst Years on Record for World’s Children
By RICK GLADSTONE
499 words
9 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The year 2014 has been one of the worst on record for the world’s children, the United Nations said on Monday in a report that chronicled a litany of war, violence, atrocities and disease, mostly in the Middle East and Africa.

Up to 15 million children are directly entangled in violent conflicts in the Central African Republic, Iraq, the Palestinian[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/p/palestinians/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] territories, South Sudan, Syria and Ukraine, said the report by the United Nations Children’s Fund, or Unicef[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/u/united_nations_childrens_fund/index.html?inline=nyt-org].

Globally, the report said, an estimated 230 million children live in countries and areas riven by armed conflicts.

“Children have been killed while studying in the classroom and while sleeping in their beds,” said Anthony Lake, the executive director of Unicef. “They have been orphaned, kidnapped, tortured, recruited, raped and even sold as slaves.”

The report was basically a summation of the well-documented afflictions that affected children in 2014. But taken in their entirety, they presented what Unicef called a devastating picture.

“Never in recent memory have so many children been subjected to such unspeakable brutality,” Mr. Lake said.

In the Central African Republic, a chronically dysfunctional country[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/08/07/world/africa/violent-and-chaotic-central-african-republic-lurches-toward-a-crisis.html] bordering on anarchy, 2.3 million children are affected, and up to 10,000 may have been recruited by armed groups as soldiers, the report said. More than 430 children have been killed or wounded, three times as many as in 2013.

In Gaza, the report said, the 50-day conflict this summer[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/30/world/middleeast/50-days-of-war-leave-israelis-and-palestinians-only-more-entrenched.html] between Israelis and Palestinians left 538 children dead, 3,370 wounded and 54,000 homeless.

The nearly four-year-old war in Syria, which spilled into Iraq this year with the ascendance of the militant group the Islamic State[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/23/world/middleeast/assad-supporters-weigh-benefits-of-us-strikes-in-syria.html], was a leading contributor of trauma to children, the report said, disrupting the lives of more than 7.3 million in Syria and 2.7 million in Iraq.

In South Sudan, the world’s youngest country[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/10/world/africa/10sudan.html], which gained independence in 2011, a calamitous civil conflict that erupted a year ago has brought severe hunger, homelessness and death. More than 750,000 children have been displaced in the country, 320,000 others are refugees in neighboring countries and 235,000 under age 5 are suffering “severe acute malnutrition,” the report said.

The year was worsened by the Ebola crisis[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/07/world/africa/as-ebola-rages-in-sierra-leone-poor-planning-thwarts-efforts.html] in West Africa, which the report said had left thousands of children orphaned and an estimated five million out of school.

The sheer number of crises in 2014, the report said, meant that many had garnered little lasting attention or had been completely overlooked.

“Protracted crises in countries like Afghanistan, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Nigeria, Pakistan, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen,” it said, “continued to claim even more young lives and futures.”

Men carried away a boy who was wounded and later died from a gunshot wound during a confrontation between Muslims and Christians in Bangui, Central African Republic, in January. | Siegfried Modola/Reuters

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141208eac9001me


U.S.; Politics
Vote on Surgeon General Nominee Vivek Murthy May Be Near
By JEREMY W. PETERS
558 words
9 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
WASHINGTON — The Senate could vote by the end of the week on President Obama[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/o/barack_obama/index.html?inline=nyt-per]'s choice for surgeon general, Dr. Vivek Murthy, whose nomination the White House pulled back on earlier this year after intense opposition from the National Rifle Association[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/15/us/senate-balks-at-obama-pick-for-surgeon-general.html].

In what would be one of his final acts as majority leader, Senator Harry Reid[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/r/harry_reid/index.html?inline=nyt-per], Democrat of Nevada, is leaning toward holding a vote before Congress adjourns, a senior Democratic aide said Monday. When lawmakers return to Washington in January, both the House and Senate will be under Republican control, and Dr. Murthy will stand virtually no chance of confirmation.

Mr. Reid is eager for a resolution to Dr. Murthy's fate even though he cannot be assured of the outcome, the aide said, speaking anonymously because no final decision has been made.

The White House is guardedly optimistic that Dr. Murthy would be confirmed if a vote is held now. Since Senate Democrats changed filibuster rules[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/22/us/politics/reid-sets-in-motion-steps-to-limit-use-of-filibuster.html] for nominees last year, he would only need a simple majority of 51 senators rather than 60. Dr. Murthy has been pressing his case personally, in private meetings with many of the Democrats who were initially wary of supporting him.

When his nomination became imperiled last winter, the trouble stemmed from difficulty with about 10 reluctant Democrats. But now several of those senators have committed to supporting Dr. Murthy or, at the very least, are not longer publicly expressing skepticism.

Some just lost their seats and are freer to vote without fear of political repercussions. Others represent states where a vote against the National Rifle Association could be politically dangerous and waited until after the elections to take a stance publicly.

Although the surgeon general's office has no formal role in overseeing or writing federal firearms policy, gun rights advocates objected to Dr. Murthy's nomination because of his support for restricting how guns can be purchased and who can own them. Dr. Murthy, an internal medicine physician, has said his concerns about guns stem from his experience in emergency rooms.

The National Rifle Association said Monday that its position had not softened. "Dr. Murthy's penchant for political activism is deeply troubling," said a spokesman for the group, Andrew Arulanandam.

Democrats who have publicly committed to voting yes in recent weeks or are believed to be leaning yes include: Mark Pryor of Arkansas, who was defeated in November; Angus King of Maine; Claire McCaskill of Missouri; Jon Tester of Montana; and Mark Warner of Virginia, who just won re-election.

Two other Democrats -- Mark Begich of Alaska, who also lost his seat last month, and Joe Manchin of West Virginia, who recently met with Dr. Murthy -- are undecided.

Dr. Murthy could afford to lose only a handful of Democratic votes and still win confirmation. Only one Republican, Senator Mark S. Kirk of Illinois, voted in the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee to send the nomination to the Senate floor.

With grave public health threats like Ebola, supporters of Dr. Murthy's have said it is irresponsible not to have a surgeon general, the nation's top doctor.

* Senate Balks at Obama Pick for Surgeon General[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/15/us/senate-balks-at-obama-pick-for-surgeon-general.html]

Dr. Vivek H. Murthy’s views have angered gun advocates. | Charles Dharapak/Associated Press

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141209eac9000b5


World Briefing | Health
World; Africa
Malaria Scourge Has Declined Globally, but Ebola May Affect Toll, W.H.O. Says
By RICK GLADSTONE
206 words
9 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The World Health Organization[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/w/world_health_organization/index.html?inline=nyt-org] reported steep declines in malaria[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/malaria/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] cases and deaths compared with 2000 in a report released early Tuesday, saying the progress was particularly notable in Africa, where the disease is most prevalent. But the W.H.O. coupled the news on malaria with a warning that it could worsen again in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, the three countries worst hit by the Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] virus, which has overwhelmed their public health systems. In its World Malaria Report 2014, the W.H.O.

said the malaria mortality rate decreased by 47 percent worldwide and by 54 percent in the Africa region between 2000 and 2013. It attributed the improvement largely to advances in diagnostic tests as well as exponential increases in the use of insecticide[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/poison/insecticide/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier]-treated bed nets and effective drug therapies. Malaria was responsible for about 584,000 deaths worldwide last year. While the scope of Ebola pales in comparison, it is far deadlier. In the W.H.O.'s latest Ebola update, on Monday, it reported 17,800 cases, including 6,331 deaths, since the outbreak began early this year.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141209eac9000jj


Op-Talk
Ebola, the European Union and the Universe: A Cosmology Professor Tells the Future
By ANNA NORTH
870 words
9 December 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
In Telling the Future, Op-Talk asks people from a variety of fields to speculate on what we have to look forward to — and what we should watch out for.

“A big, empty, boring universe with almost nothing in it.”

That’s what David Wands thinks the future might look like, according to a report[http://www.port.ac.uk/uopnews/2014/10/31/universe-may-face-a-darker-future/] from the University of Portsmouth, Britain, where he’s a cosmology professor. In a much-discussed recent paper[http://journals.aps.org.proxy.bc.edu/prl/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevLett.113.181301], he and his co-authors lay out evidence that dark energy is overtaking dark matter. Michael Brooks of The New Statesman calls[http://www.newstatesman.com/sci-tech/2014/12/dark-energy-vs-dark-matter-battle-two-cosmic-monsters] the research “a story of two cosmic monsters locked in eternal conflict.” And if dark energy wins, Mr. Brooks writes:

“Eventually, all the other galaxies will be so far away, and receding so fast, that their light will never reach what remains of our Milky Way. Nearby stars will burn out. Our sun is expected to end its life as a huge single crystal of carbon: a dark diamond in the sky, with no surrounding starlight to make it sparkle.”

Luckily, we have a while before this happens. Dr. Wands spoke to Op-Talk about changes in our galaxy and universe, but also about what might happen in the nearer future, to the European Union, space exploration and the politics of public health.

What do you hope will be different in five years’ time?

Scientific discovery advances ever more rapidly driven by technology, and this is especially true when it comes to exploring the universe around us. Astronomical surveys, such as the Sloan Digital Sky Survey[http://www.sdss.org/] and the Dark Energy Survey[http://www.darkenergysurvey.org/], will produce new maps of distant galaxies in our universe and test our basic cosmological models.

At present astronomers can see stars and galaxies only through the light (electromagnetic waves) that they emit, but in the next five years new advanced detectors (such as LIGO[https://www-advancedligo-mit-edu.proxy.bc.edu/]) will detect for the first time ripples in space-time (gravitational waves) emitted by inspiralling stars and merging black holes. This will give us a completely different view of some of the most violent events in our universe. And who knows what cataclysmic astrophysical events we might discover through gravitational waves!

What are you afraid will be different?

One of my biggest concerns, politically and scientifically, is that Britain might withdraw from the European Union, as political leaders struggle to respond to concerns over immigration from the E.U. As a scientist I consider myself fantastically lucky enough to be able to work with colleagues from all around that world. I want to live in a confident, diverse nation engaging with the wider world, not withdrawing from our nearest neighbors. Apart from anything else, this would be scientific suicide at a time when we could be leading European and global scientific collaborations.

What issue or event that we’re talking about now will be completely forgotten in five years?

I doubt there will be much interest in the public health care in West Africa in five years’ time. As the present anxiety over Ebola begins to wane, public opinion in Europe and the United States is already losing interest in problems of poverty and disease in Africa. But surely there can be no better demonstration of the interconnected world we live in – until the next global health scare emerges. Let’s hope enlightened self-interest can keep international development on the political agenda.

What issue or event will we still remember?

I hope the Rosetta-Philae probe[http://www.esa.int/Our_Activities/Space_Science/Rosetta] landing on Comet 67P will still be remembered as a great event. The first controlled landing of a spacecraft on the surface of a comet, after a 10-year journey across the solar system, was a wonderful example of how a scientific endeavor can capture the public imagination.

Given that your work looks at time frames a bit longer than five years, what do you think might happen to the universe in 20 billion years’ time? Are there even longer time frames about which we can speculate?

Scientific understanding can change a lot in five years, but it is a short time in the lifetime of our sun, our galaxy or indeed our universe.

This cosmic neighborhood will certainly be different in 20 billion years’ time. Our sun will have burned up all its hydrogen fuel, expanding up into a red giant star and burning up planet earth, before collapsing back to end its days as a fading white dwarf. And our galaxy, the Milky Way, will have collided with our sister galaxy, Andromeda, to form a whole new galaxy.

None of this will affect much the expansion of the universe beyond our local group of galaxies. In another 20 billion years the universe will have more than tripled in scale. We expect that dark energy[http://hubblesite.org/hubble_discoveries/dark_energy/] will increasingly dominate the expansion of the universe, accelerating away from us more distant galaxies. If so, our universe will become an increasingly empty and lonely place.

But that depends on the nature of dark energy, which we still know very little about. The 20-billion-year forecast might well change sooner than we think.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141209eac9002bi


A
MALARIA SCOURGE HAS DECLINED GLOBALLY, BUT EBOLA MAY AFFECT TOLL, W.H.O. SAYS
By RICK GLADSTONE
55 words
9 December 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
14
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
World Health Organization reports steep declines in malaria cases and deaths compared with 2000, but says it could worsen again in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, where public health systems have been overwhelmed by Ebola virus. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141210eac90008b


Times Insider
News Verse: Honor Moore
HONOR MOORE
287 words
9 December 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
Honor Moore’s most recent collection of poems is “Red Shoes”; her most recent book, “The Bishop’s Daughter,” a memoir.

THREE IMPROVISATIONS ON THE TIMES, 12.8.14

Digital

Sunday is no sooner emptythan Monday begins to fill.Color on a phone screen,six released from Guantanamo

to Uruguay. Hours lateranother return from theedge of death, an Americandoctor airlifted home,

blood thick with Ebola virus,his lungs and liver crashing,forty days and nights, his familybehind glass, as in his dream,

Kenema … children play, brothersand their friends whose names areSuccess and Courage: in a dark placethey were little cracks of joy…

Hard Copy

At the door, Monday’s front page,in color the Americandoctor in Sierra Leone, giantin white Tyvek, around him

children he helped to save.Though he nearly died, he wantsto go back … my skillsmeet the need. In column six,

the Uruguay release, no phototill page twelve in black and white,the hospital where the mennow rest. The president, once

an urban guerrilla who spent yearsin prison, ten in solitary,said when interviewed: The first daythey want to leave, they can go.

Footwear

He was careful when he wentinto the ward. He would gotwo or three times a dayfor as long as he could stand it.

When he came out to cool off,he poured sweat from his boots.Nothing like that froma former detainee, though I’ve read

it takes weeks for a prisonerto recover full use of his legsafter freedom. I see a manwalking the streets of Montevideo.

What is the look on his face?What does he carry?And what is it that infectswhat he will pour from his boots?

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141209eac90028n


National Desk; SECTA
G.O.P. Extracts Price for Averting Shutdown
By JONATHAN WEISMAN and ASHLEY PARKER; Julia Preston contributed reporting from New York.
1058 words
9 December 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
19
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
WASHINGTON -- Congress prepared on Monday to scale back Michelle Obama's school-lunch nutrition mandates and curtail some clean water regulations in a $1 trillion spending bill that would avert a government shutdown this week but extract a policy price from Democrats.

Continued fighting over such policy changes threatened to delay a huge spending agreement that lawmakers hope to pass to keep the government funded past Thursday. The measure would keep domestic spending at current levels while increasing funding to fight crises abroad, from the war against the Islamic State in the Middle East to the threat of Ebola in West Africa.

But in keeping with the broader theme of this 113th Congress, even reaching the finish line was proving harder than expected. Since Republicans took control of the House after the elections in 2010, the government has largely been funded by a series of short-term spending laws that held down overall government spending without shifting money to reflect Republican priorities.

With the spending bill now in the works, Republican leaders hope to leave their imprint more firmly -- and signal the direction they will try to take the federal government starting next month, when Congress is in their complete control.

Under the plan drafted by House and Senate Appropriations Committees, President Obama would get $5.4 billion in emergency funds to battle Ebola, Democratic and Republican aides say.

More than half of the overall package -- about $554 billion -- would go to military spending. The deal would also allocate roughly $948 million to handle the surge of unaccompanied minor children who began pouring across the southern border this summer.

Negotiations grew contentious on Monday and the public release of the legislation was likely to slip until Tuesday. The delay would push a House vote on the deal from Wednesday -- the target date -- to Thursday, with little margin for error to pass the package to avoid a government shutdown.

Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland and chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, did not rule out a 24- or 48-hour short-term measure to give Congress some additional time to pass the spending package, but seemed confident the legislation would ultimately make it through.

"I believe that we will not have a shutdown, and I believe that we will not have government on autopilot," she said. "The exact time and hour -- I'm not exactly sure."

Policy prescriptions, including those to ease standards on school lunch content and the Environmental Protection Agency's jurisdiction over some bodies of water, have been more contentious than the negotiations over money. Cultural conservatives in the House and Senate were also pressing to include a "conscience clause" for employers who say funding contraception violates their religious beliefs.

"Nobody here is disagreeing on nutrition in school lunches," said Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma, a Republican on the House Appropriations Committee. "It's just that sometimes people carrying out your wishes are so overzealous they go beyond what you were asking."

Republicans maintain that efforts by the first lady and congressional Democrats to improve school nutrition by reducing the sodium content and increasing the percentage of whole grains in school lunches have become onerous for beleaguered school cafeterias. The eased school lunch standards are "about pace and flexibility," Mr. Cole said.

Meantime, conservatives on and off Capitol Hill were growing more leery as lawmakers tried to stuff the spending plan with other, only marginally related measures. Lawmakers were considering add-ons to extend federal terrorism risk insurance for private developers and to shore up the ailing federal pension regulator, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.

The $1 trillion spending bill would fund almost all the government through September 2015 but keep the Department of Homeland Security open only through February to keep pressure on the president over his executive action to defer deportation of as many as five million illegal immigrants.

Military projects were given the benefit of the doubt in a package that will bear the fingerprints of Republican negotiators more than any other spending legislation has since the party took control of the House. For instance, seven reserve Awacs surveillance planes the administration wanted to cut from the Air Force Reserves will be saved at Tinker Air Force Base in Mr. Cole's district.

Conservative groups like Heritage Action, the political arm of the Heritage Foundation, were pressuring Republicans to vote against the measure, saying it did too little to combat Mr. Obama's increasingly bold use of executive authority. That, in turn, strengthened the Democrats' hands, since with Republican defections it will take Democratic votes to secure a majority to pass the bill.

"I remain cautiously optimistic that there will be sufficient votes," said Representative Charlie Dent, Republican of Pennsylvania, who added that his preference would have been to pass a broad spending bill to fund all of the government, including the Department of Homeland Security, through the current fiscal year. "Maybe in the new year we add some policy riders, but at the end of the day we're going to pass the Homeland Security bill, so why not do it now rather than wait."

Speaker John A. Boehner may need several dozen Democratic votes to push the legislation through the Republican-controlled House, and Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the minority leader, has signaled that she will provide the necessary votes only if Democrats and Republicans can find "common ground" on the policy provisions.

Mr. Cole said Ms. Pelosi's objections over policy prescriptions were "a desperate attempt to stay relevant."

Mr. Boehner, meanwhile, has been busy trying to corral his own restive conference into supporting the broad spending bill. But some conservative lawmakers are still refusing to vote for the package, arguing that it does not go far enough to fight Mr. Obama's action on immigration.

Democrats and the administration, however, worry that the short-term Homeland Security funding could have immediate negative ramifications. Department officials pointed to border enforcement and national security programs that Republicans have supported in the past, which they said would suffer with short-term funding.

Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and Senator Richard C. Shelby, the ranking Republican. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY CAMERON/REUTERS)

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141209eac90009o


U.S.; Politics
Congressional Leaders Reach Deal on Spending
By ASHLEY PARKER and JONATHAN WEISMAN
948 words
10 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
WASHINGTON — Congressional leaders reached a deal Tuesday on a more than $1 trillion spending package that would fund most of the federal government through the current fiscal year.

But because negotiations on the package dragged over policy details, House lawmakers also prepared to move on a short-term spending measure that would avert a government shutdown if they cannot pass the larger bill by Thursday, when current funding expires.

Even with nettlesome last-minute issues, leaders in both parties expressed confidence that they would be able to keep the government running. Lawmakers battled behind the scenes over dozens of additional policy provisions ranging from the Environmental Protection Agency’s jurisdiction over some bodies of water to the District of Columbia’s marijuana laws to matters of campaign finance. The big spending package, which congressional leaders had hoped to have ready on Monday, did not come until Tuesday evening. The final legislation would largely keep domestic funding at current levels, while providing more money to fight various crises abroad.

The House is expected to vote on the package on Thursday, and the short-term measure would help provide the Senate a margin of error for passing the legislation the House sends over before breaking for the winter recess.

The spending bill would fund nearly all of the federal government through September 2015, except for the Department of Homeland Security, which it would fund only through February, in retaliation for President Obama’s unilateral action to defer the deportation of as many as five million undocumented immigrants. Congressional Republicans plan to take up funding for the agency — which has primary responsibility for carrying out the president’s immigration directive — early next year, when they will control both chambers of Congress and believe they will have more leverage.

The rush Tuesday to post the legislation underscored the 113th Congress’s dubious record as one of the least productive in modern history — governing by deadlines and cliffs of their own making, and struggling to pass even some of the most pro forma pieces of legislation.

“There is something about legislative institutions that don’t function until there is a hard deadline and usually around here that hard deadline is Christmas Day,” said Senator John Thune of South Dakota, a member of Republican leadership. “Things don’t get done until there’s a crisis, and that crisis is upon us.”

Mr. Thune added that while he did not expect a government shutdown, Congress had again let a deadline slip: “Does it get done by Thursday night?” he asked, referring to the original target for passage. “It’s looking increasingly bleak for that to happen, but I think it gets done.”

The spending bill is geared toward combating threats from afar, with roughly $5.4 billion in emergency funds to fight Ebola in West Africa; roughly $64 billion for wars and other overseas operations; and more than half of the overall package going to military spending.

The final deal amounted to what one Democratic aide called a “split decision” likely to leave both sides unhappy. For instance, the bill would nullify the District of Columbia’s referendum to legalize marijuana, but it would allow Washington to decriminalize the drug, meaning possession of small amounts will no longer be punished. Environmental regulations on some waterways were nullified for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, but the Environmental Protection Agency would not be limited in its ability to regulate new bodies of water under the Clean Water Act.

Democrats fought off Republican efforts to scuttle first lady Michelle Obama’s tough rules on nutritional content of school lunches, but Republicans secured some flexibility on sodium levels and the use of whole grains. Schools will be able to claim a hardship waiver if they can show procuring whole grains would be too expensive or difficult.

Another provision would allow more leeway for banks and other financial services companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street regulatory law of 2010. But Democrats were able to secure a $150 million increase in the budget of the Securities and Exchange Commission and an additional $35 million for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.

Negotiators also decided to remove a separate bill to extend the federal terrorism risk insurance backstop passed first in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. Instead, House Republicans plan to vote on a compromise version struck by Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, and Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. That deal would raise the threshold of terrorism damage after which federal aid kicks in to $200 million from $100 million.

However, Republicans hope to attach a separate provision that would make farmers, ranchers, manufacturers and small businesses that use financial instruments to hedge risk exempt from regulations under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street regulatory law. Senate Democrats and the Obama administration oppose that move — a standoff that could mean the federal backstop that has aided the redevelopment of Lower Manhattan and construction in other areas prone to terrorism threats could expire at the end of the year.

“The more policy issues that get ensnared in the Cromnibus will make its passage more difficult,” said Representative Charlie Dent, Republican of Pennsylvania. “So to the extent we keep the policy issues out, the easier it is to secure the votes.”

Nonetheless, House Speaker John A. Boehner[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/b/john_a_boehner/index.html?inline=nyt-per] is expected to have to rely on Democratic votes to help pass the bill, as some of his more conservative members have balked, saying it does not go far enough in fighting the president’s immigration action.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141210eaca0008d


National Briefing | Health
U.S.
Nearly 2,000 Travelers Screened for Ebola
By SABRINA TAVERNISE
126 words
10 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/c/centers_for_disease_control_and_prevention/index.html?inline=nyt-org] reported Tuesday that airport workers in the United States screened 1,993 travelers arriving from the West African countries most affected by the Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] virus in the month after enhanced screening began on Oct. 11. Just 4 percent of the total, or 86 people, were flagged for further evaluation. Seven had symptoms and received medical attention, but none were found to have Ebola. The United States has reported four Ebola cases, including those of a Liberian man who contracted the disease in his home country and died in a Dallas hospital in October, and an American doctor who became infected while working in Guinea.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141210eaca000b6


Corrections
Corrections: December 10, 2014
727 words
10 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
FRONT PAGE

Because of an editing error, an article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/09/us/politics/unrest-over-race-is-testing-obamas-legacy-.html] on Tuesday about President Obama’s addressing the country’s racial conflicts omitted part of a quotation, and in so doing altered the context. In quoting the president, Valerie Jarrett, one of his senior advisers, said that he told young activists in a meeting last week to “shoot for the sky,” adding, “but ‘better’ is good.” He did not say only “Shoot for the sky.” The article also paraphrased incorrectly from Ms. Jarrett’s comment about the protests surrounding the death of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo. She said his death has unleashed a new energy among Americans, not among African-Americans.

•

An article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/03/sports/ncaafootball/uab-cancels-football-program-citing-fiscal-realities.html] last Wednesday about a decision by the University of Alabama-Birmingham to terminate its football program misstated, in some copies, the year that colleges vetoed a proposal by the N.C.A.A.'s executive committee to allow an annual $2,000 stipend for players. It was 2011, not 2012.

INTERNATIONAL

An article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/03/world/europe/tugce-albayrak-death-rattles-germany.html] last Wednesday about the death of a Turkish-German student who was killed when she tried to stop a man from harassing two girls, a case that has provoked debate over Germany’s efforts to form a multicultural society, referred incorrectly to the student, Tugce Albayrak. Although of Turkish descent, Ms. Albayrak was born in Germany; she was not an immigrant. The error was repeated in the headline.

NATIONAL

An article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/08/us/dallas-physician-in-nations-first-ebola-case-acknowledges-errors-in-treatment.html] on Monday about the Texas physician who misdiagnosed the first case of Ebola in the United States paraphrased incorrectly from written responses the doctor, Joseph Howard Meier, gave to questions. While Dr. Meier acknowledged that his initial diagnosis of Thomas Eric Duncan was inaccurate, he said his care was appropriate based on the information he had at the time; he did not say that he erred in his treatment. The error was repeated in a headline. The article also misstated the travel information that Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas received from Mr. Duncan during his initial visit to the emergency room. He told health care workers that he had been in Africa; he did not specify Liberia. That error also appeared in a front-page article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/04/us/containing-ebola-cdc-troops-west-africa.html] on Oct. 4 about the hospital’s having changed its account of how it handled the case.

BUSINESS DAY

An article[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/?p=639851] on Tuesday about Merck & Company’s $8.4 billion deal for Cubist Pharmaceuticals misstated the actions required by Cubist shareholders in the acquisition. The deal is subject to the tendering of a majority of Cubist’s shares, not to a vote by Cubist shareholders.

•

An article[http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/?p=167037] on Saturday about a class-action case against Apple, using information from an Apple representative, misstated Jeffrey Kowalski’s involvement in the matter. Mr. Kowalski, who bought an iPod Touch in 2008, contacted the judge overseeing the case to offer himself as a plaintiff; the plaintiffs’ lawyers did not fax the judge requesting that Mr. Kowalski be added as a plaintiff.

SPORTS

An article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/02/sports/football/tom-coughlin-urges-his-giants-to-tune-out-coaching-speculation.html] on Dec. 2 about speculation that Giants Coach Tom Coughlin’s job is in jeopardy referred incorrectly in some copies to the performance of the Jacksonville Jaguars in the first half of their victory over the Giants on Nov. 30. They scored 3 points; they were not “blanked in the opening half.”

THE ARTS

A report[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/08/theater/tail-spin-to-close.html] in the “Arts, Briefly” column on Monday about the closing of the Off Broadway comedy “Tail! Spin!” on Jan. 4 misspelled the playwright’s surname. He is Mario Correa, not Correo.

OBITUARIES

An obituary[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/22/business/media/richard-eder-arts-critic-and-foreign-correspondent-dies-at-82.html] on Nov. 22 about the arts critic and foreign correspondent Richard Eder, using information from his family, misspelled the surname of one of his sisters, who survives him. She is Liz McCulloch, not McCullough.

The Times welcomes comments and suggestions, or complaints about errors that warrant correction. Messages on news coverage can be e-mailed to nytnews@nytimes.com[mailto:nytnews@nytimes.com] or left toll-free at 1-888-NYT-NEWS (1-888-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be e-mailed to letters@nytimes.com[mailto:letters@nytimes.com] or faxed to (212) 556-3622.

Readers dissatisfied with a response or concerned about the paper’s journalistic integrity may reach the public editor at public@nytimes.com[mailto:public@nytimes.com] or (212) 556-7652.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or e-mail customercare@nytimes.com[mailto:customercare@nytimes.com].

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141210eaca001e1


Metropolitan Desk; SECTA
Corrections
150 words
10 December 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
2
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
An article on Monday about the Texas physician who misdiagnosed the first case of Ebola in the United States paraphrased incorrectly from written responses the doctor, Joseph Howard Meier, gave to questions. While Dr. Meier acknowledged that his initial diagnosis of Thomas Eric Duncan was inaccurate, he said his care was appropriate based on the information he had at the time; he did not say that he erred in his treatment. The error was repeated in a headline. The article also misstated the travel information that Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas received from Mr. Duncan during his initial visit to the emergency room. He told health care workers that he had been in Africa; he did not specify Liberia. That error also appeared in a front-page article on Oct. 4 about the hospital's having changed its account of how it handled the case.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141210eaca0006y


U.S.
Your Wednesday Briefing
By TATIANA SCHLOSSBERG and VICTORIA SHANNON
1058 words
10 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Good morning.

Here’s what you need to know:

• Torture fallout.

International human rights advocates are calling for the U.S.[http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-30407950] to prosecute members of George W. Bush’s administration for their participation in the torture of detainees in the wake of 9/11.

A report[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/10/world/senate-report-raises-doubts-about-cia-claims-on-hunt-for-osama-bin-laden.html] accuses the C.I.A. of misleading the public and rejects the notion that torture was crucial in the intelligence gathering that led to, among other things, the killing of Osama bin Laden.

• Climate change accord.

Diplomats from 196 countries at the U.N. climate change conference are closing in on a deal[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/10/world/with-compromises-a-global-accord-to-fight-climate-change-is-in-sight.html?hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&module=second-column-region®ion=top-news&WT.nav=top-news] to commit every country to cut fossil fuel emissions.

A draft agreement would not stop global warming or reduce many of its effects, in part because it allows each country to set its own reduction targets, but does set policy goals.

• Spending deal reached.

House leaders may act today on a short-term solution to avert a government shutdown if Congress can’t pass the agreement congressional leaders reached Tuesday.

The deadline is Thursday. The agreement would fund most of the federal government through the end of the fiscal year.

• Closing their umbrellas.

The police urged Hong Kong demonstrators to leave today before they clear the area Thursday in what may be the end of the Occupy Hong Kong protests[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/10/world/asia/hong-kong-protests.html?ref=world].

The pro-democracy rallies once attracted 100,000 demonstrators, but the umbrella-wielding throngs have been reduced to just 100 people.

• Not the appeal he wanted.

A judge ruled today[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/11/world/africa/oscar-pistorius-south-africa-ruling-appeal.html] that prosecutors can appeal Oscar Pistorius’s culpable homicide[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/13/world/africa/oscar-pistorius-verdict-guilty-of-culpable-homicide.html] conviction and instead seek one for murder in an appeal that will go before the South African Supreme Court.

• Clash in West Bank.

Witnesses said a senior Palestinian official died[http://www.nytimes.com/aponline/2014/12/10/world/middleeast/ap-ml-israel-palestinians.html] today after being beaten by an Israeli soldier and hit by a tear-gas canister fired by Israeli troops during a protest in the West Bank.

Israeli officials said they were looking into the report, but had no immediate comment.

• Preschool at the White House.

President Obama hosts a gathering on early education today at the White House, where he will announce the states and communities to receive $750 million in preschool and child care grants.

The president and first lady will visit the Anacostia-Bolling military base to deliver holiday gifts for the U.S. Marine CorpsToys for Tots program.[http://www.toysfortots.org/default.aspx]

• Extreme weather.

Northern California is bracing for a powerful storm[http://abcnews.go.com/US/wireStory/northern-california-braces-powerful-storm-27493957], potentially the state’s biggest in five years. High winds and flash floods are expected today and Thursday.

MARKETS

• Wall Street stocks are sharply lower. European indexes are down slightly, while Asian stocks ended widely mixed.

The price of crude oil dropped 4 percent to $61.17 a barrel.

• JPMorgan Chase could need another $20 billion under a Fed proposal to increase the capital that big banks[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/12/09/with-new-capital-rule-fed-nudges-big-banks-to-shrink/] must have on hand in case of financial duress.

• IBM and Apple today introduce 10 mobile apps for businesses[http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/12/10/apple-and-ibm-start-to-rethink-mobile-apps-for-business/] from a portfolio that may eventually include more than 100.

• Spain and Thailand are the latest countries to order Uber, the ride-sharing service, to cease operations[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/10/technology/uber-is-ordered-by-spain-and-thailand-to-halt-operations.html]. On Friday, a court in Paris is expected to decide whether to shut down the service in France.

NOTEWORTHY

• New drug for depression.

The club drug Special K, also known as ketamine[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/10/business/special-k-a-hallucinogen-raises-hopes-and-concerns-as-a-treatment-for-depression.html], is being used as a treatment for depression at places like Yale, Mount Sinai and the National Institute for Mental Health.

A study demonstrates the drug’s effectiveness, but critics warn that doctors don’t know enough about it for use outside of clinical trials.

• Prize day.

The Nobel Peace Prize was awarded today[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/11/world/europe/malala-yousafzai-kailash-satyarthi-nobel-peace-prize.html] in Oslo to Malala Yousafzai, 17 (earlier, we incorrectly reported Malala is 16), a Pakistani advocate for girls’ education, and Kailash Satyarthi, an Indian children’s rights advocate.

The other Nobels are given out in Sweden today, the anniversary of the death of Alfred Nobel, the inventor of dynamite who established the prizes in his will.

• “Call Victoria Embankment” just doesn’t have the same ring.

Investors from Abu Dhabi are buying Scotland Yard[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/10/world/europe/abu-dhabi-investors-buy-scotland-yard.html] — the building, not the police force — and turning it into apartments.

The Metropolitan Police Service is moving to the Victoria Embankment[http://rendezvous.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/05/21/budget-conscious-scotland-yard-moving-to-smaller-home/].

• Return to sender.

A Russian billionaire who bought James D. Watson’s 1962 Nobel Prize medal for $4.8 million at auction plans to return it[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/10/nyregion/buyer-of-james-watsons-nobel-medal-will-return-it.html] to Dr. Watson.

“A situation in which an outstanding scientist has to sell a medal recognizing his achievements is unacceptable,” said the buyer, Alisher Usmanov.

• Ace to the rescue.

The Oakland A’s pitcher Jon Lester[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/11/sports/baseball/jon-lester-chicago-cubs.html] agreed to a six-year, $155 million contract with the Chicago Cubs.

• People of the year.

Doctors, nurses and other Ebola fighters got Time magazine’s annual person of the year[http://time.com/time-person-of-the-year-ebola-fighters-choice/] nod today. Last year’s award went to Pope Francis.

BACK STORY

Fifty years ago was an auspicious time in popular music.

In 1964, the Beatles appeared on Billboard’s charts for the first time, the Rolling Stones released their first album, the Supremes had five No. 1 hits and Simon and Garfunkel debuted with “Wednesday Morning, 3 A.M.”

The 50-year milestone is significant, because music published during the first half-century of its recording gets another 20 years of copyright protection under changes in European law.

So every year since 2012, studios go through their tape vaults to find unpublished music to get it on the market before the deadline.

That’s how we came to get outtakes of Bob Dylan, the Beatles and the Beach Boys[http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/12/05/rare-dylan-recordings-set-for-release-in-copyright-extension-bid/] in recent years.

This year, Sony is releasing a limited-edition nine-LP set of 1964 recordings by Mr. Dylan, including a 46-second try at “Mr. Tambourine Man,” which he would not complete until 1965.

The Beach Boys released two copyright-extension sets of outtakes last week.

There’s no official word on a Beatles release, but last year around this time, “The Beatles Bootleg Recordings 1963” turned up unannounced on iTunes.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com[mailto:briefing@nytimes.com].

Want to get the briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up[http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/nytnow/].

The Duchess of Cambridge topped off her visit to New York by attending the St. Andrews 600th anniversary dinner at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. | Richard Perry/The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141210eaca001uq


A
NEARLY 2,000 TRAVELERS SCREENED FOR EBOLA
By SABRINA TAVERNISE
56 words
10 December 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
25
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports American airports have screened nearly 2,000 travelers arriving from West African countries most affected by Ebola virus in month following beginning of enhanced screening process; only 4 percent of that total were identified for further evaluation. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141212eaca0002a


First Draft
Today in Politics
THE NEW YORK TIMES
1234 words
10 December 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
Torture Revelations Raise Partisan Heat

Good Wednesday morning from Washington, where lawmakers are combing through a last-minute spending bill, Benghazi watchers are wondering why Representative Trey Gowdy’s panel has been so tame, and the gruesome revelations [http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/12/08/world/does-torture-work-the-cias-claims-and-what-the-committee-found.html] about the C.I.A.’s torture program are reverberating in the Capitol and beyond.

The sharp partisan split over the validity of the Senate’s new report on the torture of terrorism detainees was striking, raising questions about how closely the two parties will cooperate on intelligence issues when Republicans take control of Congress in January.

With the notable exceptions of Senators John McCain of Arizona and Susan Collins of Maine, most Republicans were quite critical of the report. That it was produced by Democrats on the Senate Intelligence Committee and was sharply critical of the George W. Bush administration left many feeling that the findings were tainted by ideology.

Senator Mitch McConnell, the incoming majority leader, joined Republican leaders in saying it was an “ideologically motivated and distorted recounting of historical events.” Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Senate Republican, said that C.I.A. workers should be thanked, not vilified [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/10/us/politics/obama-says-senate-report-vindicates-his-ending-of-cia-program.html].

Senator Dianne Feinstein, the California Democrat who is chairwoman of the Intelligence Committee, attributed the quick Republican dismissal to the passage of time since the events. “Time dulls senses to a great extent,” she said.

In a recent interview, Senator Richard M. Burr, the North Carolina Republican who will succeed Ms. Feinstein as chairman, said he intended to hold the intelligence community accountable in his new role and would not tolerate being misled by spy agency officials.

But given the disparity in their reactions to the torture findings, Democrats are worried about potential backsliding. “That is something we are going to have to be vigilant about, no question about it,” said Senator Martin Heinrich, Democrat of New Mexico.

– Carl Hulse

For Republicans, Filibuster Debate Spurs a Filibuster

Senate Republicans gathered behind closed doors on Tuesday to talk about what to do about the filibuster — and a filibuster broke out.

Participants at the 90-minute session said a wide variety of views were offered about whether to reverse the Democratic change that lowered the filibuster threshold [http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/22/us/politics/reid-sets-in-motion-steps-to-limit-use-of-filibuster.html?pagewanted=all] on executive branch nominees, reducing the number of votes needed for confirmations from 60 votes to a simple majority. But no conclusion was reached — sort of like what happens on the Senate floor.

Some Republicans want to keep the change. Others say they should reverse it and prove they are the guardians of the institution. And another group would undo the change only if they could muster the 67 votes called for under the rules, rather than with a parliamentary tactic as Democrats did.

If divisions persist, the rule will most likely stay put for now.

– Carl Hulse

Benghazi Hearings Are Back. Will There Be Fireworks?

For an inquiry that began with much fanfare, the Republican-led Benghazi panel is at something of a crossroads.

The second round of hearings begins Wednesday morning [http://benghazi.house.gov/hearings/hearing-2] and comes just two weeks after the House Intelligence Committee said that the administration had not, in fact, intentionally misled the public [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/23/world/middleeast/republican-led-benghazi-inquiry-largely-backs-administration.html] about what had occurred during the attacks.

That conclusion was in sync with the findings of several other investigations into the 2012 siege on the diplomatic compound in Libya, leaving conspiracy theorists with little to chew on.

Observers of the proceedings have noted that the tone of the questioning by Representative Trey Gowdy, the South Carolina Republican leading the panel, has been largely pragmatic. That’s expected to continue on Wednesday, with two State Department officials who deal with the security of facilities set to testify.

“He isn’t covering the areas that satiate the right-wing Benghazi thirst,” said Ari Rabin-Havt, an author of “The Benghazi Hoax,” of Mr. Gowdy. “He’s focused on security and embassies and other issues where there tends to be bipartisan agreement.”

Will it last?

The panel is expected to continue its inquiry into next year. One theory Mr. Rabin-Havt had is that the panel could be saving a more aggressive stance to coincide with Hillary Rodham Clinton’s presumed presidential announcement. After solidifying the panel’s credibility, it would have firmer ground to pull the former secretary of state back into the Benghazi fray.

“He could be keeping his powder dry,” Mr. Rabin-Havt said.

– Alan Rappeport

What We’re Watching Today

President Obama hosts the White House Summit on Early Education, speaking to business leaders, philanthropists and advocates on the need for quality preschool programs.

Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, delivers a 3 p.m. speech at the Heritage Foundation [http://www.heritage.org/events/2014/12/cruz] on American leadership.

The House Foreign Affairs Committee holds a 10 a.m. hearing [http://foreignaffairs.house.gov/hearing/hearing-countering-isis-are-we-making-progress] on the progress the United States is making in its battle against the militant group the Islamic State.

Health experts testify [http://www.foreign.senate.gov/hearings/the-ebola-epidemic-the-keys-to-success-for-the-international-response] before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on the international Ebola response.

Hot Wheels Turn Heads, and Ears, at White House

If it sounded like Nascar on Pennsylvania Avenue on Tuesday, that’s because it was.

The roar of engines could be heard across Lafayette Square in front of the White House and even in The Times’s Washington bureau (at least through the telephone lines).

As much of Washington was digesting the Senate’s torture report, the White House hosted the race-car driver Ryan Blaney along with two riders for an event on how better tires can help cut carbon pollution and improve road safety.

While Nascar, with its high speeds and frequent crashes [http://www.nascar.com/en_us/news-media/articles/2014/8/15/nascar-on-track-incident-procedure-announced.html], might not be the obvious ambassador for safety , it is teaming with the Obama administration [http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2014/12/09/when-rubber-hits-road-teaming-nascar-act-climate] to promote tire maintenance. Fuller tires mean fewer accidents and better fuel efficiency, they say.

The sight of the M&M emblazoned car in the White House driveway certainly turned some heads, with some passers-by wondering if Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. was trying to make a quick getaway [https://twitter.com/derjue/status/542405170026397696] and other suggesting that “The Beast,” President Obama’s limousine, had been souped-up.

– Alan Rappeport

Our Favorites From Today’s Times

Don’t miss our complete coverage [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/10/world/senate-intelligence-committee-cia-torture-report.html?&hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&module=span-ab-top-region®ion=top-news&WT.nav=top-news] of the C.I.A. torture report, including graphics [http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/12/09/world/cia-torture-report-key-points.html], video and the annotated document [http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/12/08/world/does-torture-work-the-cias-claims-and-what-the-committee-found.html].

Senator Harry Reid’s standing in the Senate may be diminished, but he is ready to do battle [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/10/us/politics/reid-in-diminished-role-vows-fight-with-gop.html] come Jan. 6.

On the road in Nashville, President Obama urged Congress stop complaining about his executive action on immigration and send him a bill [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/10/us/politics/obama-says-congress-could-eliminate-need-for-his-immigration-actions.html?rref=politics&module=Ribbon&version=context®ion=Header&action=click&contentCollection=Politics&pgtype=article].

Secretary of State John Kerry would not rule out [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/10/us/politics/kerry-warns-senate-against-curbs-on-fighting-isis.html?ref=politics] using ground forces to combat the Islamic State.

Indifference to the famous came under siege when the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge passed through New York [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/10/nyregion/prince-william-and-catherine-pay-respects-at-sept-11-memorial.html?ref=nyregion].

What We’re Reading Elsewhere

Trevor Timm writes in The Guardian that the Senate torture report reveals that America did much more than torture “some folks” [http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/dec/09/america-torture-cia-report-defenders] and covered it up.

Al Jazeera talks to experts about the legality [http://america.aljazeera.com/articles/2014/12/9/the-cia-torture-reportalegalexplainer.html] of the C.I.A.’s interrogation techniques.

The Washington Postanalyzes the 2007 testimony [http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/national/cia-interrogation-report/hayden-testimony/] of Michael V. Hayden, the former C.I.A. director, and compares it with the revelations in Tuesday’s report.

Glenn Greenwald argues in The Intercept that the news media is to blame [https://firstlook.org/theintercept/2014/12/09/live-coverage-release-senate-torture-report/] for its reluctance to use the word “torture” when it comes to America’s interrogation tactics.

Like this? Get First Draft delivered to your inbox [http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics/].

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141210eaca000xf


news
Big concessions mark U.S. deal on spending
By ASHLEY PARKER and JONATHAN WEISMAN
776 words
11 December 2014
International New York Times
INHT
8
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The $1.1 trillion spending agreement reached by House and Senate negotiators on Tuesday night would triple the amount of money that contributors could give to political conventions and to real estate projects owned by the political parties, possibly strengthening the influence of big donors but also redirecting money from largely unregulated outside groups to the Democratic and Republican Parties.

Limits on individual contributions to national parties would leap to $324,000 a year from $32,400.

The campaign finance changes are among dozens of compromises reached behind closed doors that have cheered industries from coal and gas to agriculture and finance, while infuriating campaign finance watchdogs and environmental groups.

‘‘The new increased caps on contributions to the parties represent nothing more than a rent increase for K Street lobbyists who organize and direct the flow of money from those Americans with the deepest pockets,’’ said Meredith McGehee, the head of the watchdog Campaign Legal Center.

Representative Harold Rogers, Republican of Kentucky and chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, included a measure preventing the Obama administration from directing agencies like the Export-Import Bank to oppose coal-fired power plants abroad, even after President Obama secured agreements from foreign countries like China to do the same.

‘‘This rider harms U.S. foreign policy interests and throws climate change priorities and local communities in developing countries under the bus,’’ said Erich Pica, the president of Friends of the Earth.

Another provision would ease rules of the Dodd-Frank securities regulation law of 2010 on some of the most exotic financial instruments that helped cause the most recent financial crisis. Republicans pushing the issue say such regulations were hitting community banks and small businesses that had nothing to do with the crisis.

Republicans also flexed their muscles on funding decisions, especially on the military. Many of Mr. Obama’s efforts to trim military spending were reversed. Appropriators added four F-35 Joint Strike Fighters that the Pentagon had not requested. The defense procurement program will cost an additional $479 million. Communities around military bases will get $32 million more than Congress had intended to give just months ago in lieu of property taxes.

Still, Democrats in the White House and on Capitol Hill said they held their ground on the most fundamental issues. The bill does nothing to limit the carrying out of the Affordable Care Act. Funding increases secured last year for Mr. Obama’s early childhood education push were maintained. The president’s proposed funding to fight the Ebola outbreak survived.

‘‘In today’s era of slam-down politics, we were able to set aside our differences,’’ said Senator Barbara Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland and chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. ‘‘Working across the aisle and across the dome, we created compromise without capitulation.’’

But because negotiations on the package dragged over policy details, House lawmakers also prepared to move on a short-term spending measure that would avert a government shutdown if Congress cannot pass the larger bill by Thursday, when the current funding expires.

Even with nettlesome last-minute issues, leaders in both parties expressed confidence that they would be able to keep the government running.

The House is expected to vote on the package on Thursday before sending it to the Senate. The short-term measure would provide the Senate cover and avoid a government shutdown if the Senate is unable to also pass the bill that day.

The spending bill would fund nearly all of the federal government through September 2015, except for the Department of Homeland Security, which it would fund only through February, in retaliation for Mr. Obama’s unilateral action to defer the deportation of as many as five million undocumented immigrants. Congressional Republicans plan to take up funding for the agency — which has primary responsibility for carrying out the president’s immigration directive — early next year, when they will control both chambers of Congress and believe they will have more leverage.

The rush Tuesday to post the legislation underscored the 113th Congress’s dubious record as one of the least productive in modern history — governing by deadlines and cliffs of its own making, and struggling to pass even some of the most pro forma pieces of legislation.

‘‘There is something about legislative institutions that don’t function until there is a hard deadline, and usually around here that hard deadline is Christmas Day,’’ said Senator John Thune of South Dakota, a member of the Republican leadership. ‘‘Things don’t get done until there’s a crisis, and that crisis is upon us.’’

International Herald Tribune

Document INHT000020141211eacb00001


Corrections
Corrections: December 11, 2014
947 words
11 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
FRONT PAGE

An article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/10/us/berkeley-protests.html] on Wednesday comparing the protest marches in Berkeley, Calif., to those of the 1960s misstated the title of Nicholas Dirks, who discussed the history of unrest at the University of California, Berkeley. He is chancellor at Berkeley, not president.

•

Because of an editing error, an article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/08/nyregion/grand-juries-seldom-charge-police-officers-in-fatal-actions.html] on Monday about the rarity of indictments of police officers through the grand jury system referred incorrectly to a shooting in North Carolina last year when the police killed Jonathan Ferrell, an unarmed black man. Police officers initially fired a Taser at Mr. Ferrell, but missed; the Taser did not strike him. (Later an officer fired 12 bullets at Mr. Ferrell, striking him 10 times.)

INTERNATIONAL

The Muko Journal article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/09/world/a-black-widow-case-strikes-a-nerve-in-japan.html] on Tuesday, about a woman in Japan suspected in the deaths of at least six elderly men that she either married or dated, misstated, in some editions, the given name of a detective who worked on the case. He is Ryoji Nishiyama, not Koji.

NATIONAL

An article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/08/us/philadelphia-laments-native-son-bill-cosbys-now-tarnished-image.html] on Monday about reaction in Philadelphia to assault allegations against Bill Cosby misidentified one of the individuals next to Mr. Cosby on a mural in North Philadelphia. He is the Rev. Paul Washington, an Episcopal priest and community activist, not Desmond Tutu. The error was repeated in a picture caption.

•

An article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/08/health/ebola-doctor-ian-crozier-return-from-the-edge-of-death-.html] on Monday about Dr. Ian Crozier, the third American with Ebola to be airlifted to Emory University Hospital in Atlanta from West Africa, misidentified his birthplace in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe). He was born in Masvingo — not in Bulawayo, which is where he grew up.

NEW YORK

An article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/04/nyregion/officer-told-grand-jury-he-meant-no-harm-to-eric-garner.html] last Thursday about testimony by Officer Daniel Pantaleo before a grand jury in the death of Eric Garner misspelled, in some editions, the surname of a lawyer who said that police officers are an exception to the general practice of not having defendants testify at grand jury proceedings. He is James J. Culleton, not Colleton.

BUSINESS DAY

An article[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/?p=639955] on Tuesday about several technology executives’ financing of the petition site Change.org misstated the background of one of them, Pierre M. Omidyar. He was the founder of eBay, not its co-founder. The article, using information from people with knowledge of the fund-raising, also erroneously attributed a distinction to Mr. Omidyar. Other executives — not just Mr. Omidyar — are repeat investors in the latest round of financing.

SPORTS

The On Pro Basketball column[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/04/sports/basketball/san-antonio-spurs-gregg-popovich-remains-haunted-by-missed-chances.html] last Thursday, about San Antonio Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich, misstated the number of points by which the Spurs were leading when the Miami Heat started a rally to win Game 6 of the 2013 N.B.A. finals. It was 5 points, not 6.

SPECIAL SECTION: DEALBOOK

An article[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/?p=639807] on Page F16 today, about pension fund investing in Canada, misstates the amount of assets under management for the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board. It is 234 billion Canadian dollars, not 273 billion. The article also misstates the plan’s cost of outsourcing a $10 billion infrastructure investment. It is $51 million, not $15 million. And the article misstates the title of Ashby Monk, who commented on differences between American and Canadian pension fund rules. He is the executive director of the global projects center (not products center) at Stanford University.

OBITUARIES

An obituary[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/04/nyregion/herman-badillo-fixture-of-new-york-politics-dies-at-85.html] last Thursday about the former New York congressman Herman Badillo misspelled the surname of his second wife. She was Irma Deutsch Liebling, not Leibling.

STYLES

A caption[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/20/fashion/keira-knightley-and-benedict-cumberbatch-celebrate-the-imitation-game.html] on Nov. 20 with the Scene City column misspelled the given name of a guest. He is Allen Leech, not Allan.

•

A report[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/04/fashion/shinolas-first-clothing-line-not-so-ugly-christmas-sweaters-and-more-mens-holiday-shopping.html] on the Browsing page last Thursday about a Shinola cotton sweatshirt misstated the price. It is $120, not $170.

•

The Unbuttoned column[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/20/fashion/the-lessons-of-a-rosetta-scientists-shirt.html] on Nov. 20, about the attention received by a shirt featuring pinup models worn by Dr. Matt Taylor, the British physicist who worked on the Rosetta mission that landed a spacecraft on a comet, misidentified the original source of the Twitter message “One small shirt for a man, one giant sexist remark for mankind.” The original author is the writer Andrea Ayres-Deets; it was retransmitted by Jennifer L. Hoffman.

•

An article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/04/style/the-brooklyn-brand-goes-global.html] last Thursday about entrepreneurs who use the name Brooklyn to sell products and services overseas misspelled the given name of a Manila restaurateur who modeled his business after restaurants in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. He is Ynigo Santos, not Yniga.

HOME

An article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/04/garden/was-it-too-soon-to-be-sustainable.html] last Thursday about the challenges of operating a sustainable house in Vermont misstated part of the title of a 1992 book by Al Gore. It is “Earth in the Balance: Ecology and the Human Spirit,” not “The Earth in Balance: Ecology and the Human Spirit.”

•

A report[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/27/garden/from-vipp-a-furnished-house-that-arrives-in-two-containers.html] in the Currents column on Nov. 27 misidentified a principal material used in the construction of the Vipp prefab house. It is galvanized steel, not stainless steel.

OPINION

The identification line with a letter[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/10/opinion/elite-college-admissions.html] on Wednesday about elite college admissions misspelled the name of the college at Oxford where the writer, a Princeton undergraduate, is studying for a year. It is Worcester College, not Worchester.

The Times welcomes comments and suggestions, or complaints about errors that warrant correction. Messages on news coverage can be e-mailed to nytnews@nytimes.com[mailto:nytnews@nytimes.com] or left toll-free at 1-888-NYT-NEWS (1-888-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be e-mailed to letters@nytimes.com[mailto:letters@nytimes.com] or faxed to (212) 556-3622.

Readers dissatisfied with a response or concerned about the paper’s journalistic integrity may reach the public editor at public@nytimes.com[mailto:public@nytimes.com] or (212) 556-7652.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or e-mail customercare@nytimes.com[mailto:customercare@nytimes.com].

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141211eacb001gt


Metropolitan Desk; SECTA
Corrections
50 words
11 December 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
2
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
An article on Monday about Dr. Ian Crozier, the third American with Ebola to be airlifted to Emory University Hospital in Atlanta from West Africa, misidentified his birthplace in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe). He was born in Masvingo -- not in Bulawayo, which is where he grew up.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141211eacb0004z


Op-Ed Contributor
Opinion
The Path to Zero Ebola Cases
By JIM YONG KIM
902 words
12 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
MONROVIA, Liberia — In my career as a medical doctor and global health policy maker, I have been in the middle of monumental struggles, including fights to make treatment accessible in the developing world for those living with H.I.V./AIDS as well as multi-drug resistant tuberculosis. But the Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] epidemic is the worst I’ve ever seen.

More than 11 months into the crisis, thousands of people are dead and more than 17,000 have been infected. The virus kills quickly, spreads fear even faster, alters human relationships, devastates economies and threatens to cruelly extinguish hope in three fragile countries that were on the rebound after years of misery. No other modern epidemic has been so destructive so fast.

Recently, the regional response to the Ebola epidemic has been extremely effective in slowing its spread. Presidents Alpha Condé of Guinea, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf of Liberia[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/liberia/index.html?inline=nyt-geo] and Ernest Bai Koroma of Sierra Leone have shown strong resolve and determined political will in battling the virus. I recently spent two days in those countries and saw first-hand that the situation today is far better than it was a month ago because of national and international efforts.

But we are not yet on the path to end the epidemic. These three countries and the world must now shift the focus of their strategy with one goal in mind: zero Ebola cases. While each country faces different challenges in reaching this destination, there are common principles that can guide them. Here are five steps the world must take together.

First, we must find the resources required, no matter the cost, to get to zero cases as soon as possible. Any delay will dramatically increase the price in terms of both lives and money. For Senegal, the cost to treat one patient and track all of his contacts was more than $1 million. For Nigeria, one infected person led to 19 other cases, and more than 19,000 contacts traced by over 800 health care workers at a cost of more than $13 million. In Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, there are not one or 10 active transmission lines, but hundreds. Defeating Ebola now will cost billions — but it will spare the rest of the world from the spread of the virus, save lives in the countries, save money over the long term, and help the countries rebuild their economies.

Second, it is time to multiply the number of trained people to hunt down the virus. Responders must track each contact of an infected person. Done right, this strategy will eventually extinguish all transmission lines, ending the epidemic. The focus of this vital activity must be on the intensity, quality and reach of tracking activities deep into the community. The communities need to be engaged, empowered and true partners in the drive to zero. It will also begin these countries’ recovery process by providing work for potentially thousands of local people, and teach skills that are much needed to build effective community health care systems.

Third, response coordination and support mechanisms must move down to the district level, with teams capable of collecting and analyzing data to further drive the intervention, as well as to scale up diagnostics and triage capabilities. We must especially focus on one particular piece of data: The percentage of new cases not on previous contact lists. In other words, did trackers previously identify the people who are newly infected as contacts of other cases, or do the new cases represent unidentified transmission lines? This will tell us whether we’re winning or losing. Right now, in all three countries, we have only partial data on this particular indicator.

Fourth, national response strategies must be nimble and adapt to local conditions, rather than be bound by prior commitments. Liberia, for instance, has had the most recent success in the fight against the virus and has seen a dramatic drop in reported cases. When I was in Liberia, they counted 150 active cases — the lowest number in several months. Now there is an opportunity to aggressively set in motion a contact tracing program to stop the lines of transmission, one by one until it’s over.

Finally, we must empower the strong leaders in the region who head the response to extinguish the virus wherever it exists. On the ground, there are talented national staff who have been tested on the frontline. There are also international partners: the United States and the United Kingdom, other countries, the United Nations, and international nongovernmental organizations, which have deployed massive resources in support of national efforts. Together, they have stood fast and slowed down this horrific epidemic. We must now give them the freedom and resources to end it.

We have no choice but to beat Ebola. I return from West Africa admiring the leaders and the international responders. But we must also acknowledge that we have underestimated Ebola in the past and it’s possible we could do so again. We must not forget we have one goal only: zero cases.

Jim Yong Kim, a physician, anthropologist and former president of Dartmouth College, is president of the World Bank Group.

* As Ebola Rages, Poor Planning Thwarts Efforts [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/07/world/africa/as-ebola-rages-in-sierra-leone-poor-planning-thwarts-efforts.html]

Members of District 13 ambulance service disinfect a room in a village north of Monrovia, Liberia. | Jerome Delay/Associated Press

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141211eacc001up


Business Day
Geneva Hospital Pauses Test of an Ebola Vaccine
By ANDREW POLLACK
775 words
12 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
A test of an experimental Ebola vaccine recently licensed by Merck has been temporarily paused after some vaccinated volunteers experienced pain in their joints, a medical center in Geneva announced Thursday.

But the center, University Hospital of Geneva, said such reactions were common for vaccines, suggesting it did not think this represented a major setback to the development of the vaccine, which might become an important tool in containing the epidemic in West Africa.

The Merck vaccine is one of two that are in early testing in healthy volunteers at various sites around the world. The other is being developed by GlaxoSmithKline[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/business/companies/glaxosmithkline_plc/index.html?inline=nyt-org] and the United States National Institutes of Health.

If the vaccines prove safe in these early tests and show evidence that they stimulate an immune system response, health authorities plan to conduct larger trials beginning next year in the African countries affected by the outbreak.

The vaccine being tested in Geneva was initially developed by the Public Health Agency of Canada and licensed to NewLink Genetics, a small biotechnology company in Iowa. Late last month, NewLink licensed its rights to Merck, a company with far more resources and expertise in developing and manufacturing vaccines.

University Hospital of Geneva said in a statement Thursday that it had given the vaccine to 59 volunteers since Nov. 10 and that over all the vaccine was “very well tolerated.” Some people got fever or muscle pain in the days and hours after the injection, but that was expected and the volunteers had been warned about it.

However, it said, four volunteers then reported mild pain in the joints of the hands and feet 10 to 15 days after the injection, something not expected. The hospital said it therefore decided to halt the injections until Jan. 5, so it could study the situation and update the information about expected side effects that it provides to volunteers.

Joint pain after vaccination “is a well-documented phenomenon which does not worry specialists,” it said. It added, “The temporary interruption of a clinical trial is a standard precautionary measure in such cases.”

The vaccine is also being tested in Canada, Germany and Gabon, and in the United States at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research and at the National Institutes of Health. These other teams have not observed such inflammation, the Geneva hospital said.

Merck said that the side effect was seen in volunteers getting a higher dose and that part of the goal for the study was to define the proper dose. It said it understood that the study would continue, using lower doses.

“These events have not been reported at any of the other clinical sites,” the company said in a statement. “It is not known at this time whether these events are related to the vaccine or not.”

Merck paid $30 million initially to NewLink for rights to the vaccine and owes another $20 million when the vaccine enters later-stage testing. Shares of NewLink were down about 5 percent Thursday afternoon.

So far, the GlaxoSmithKline vaccine does not appear to have caused any safety problems, authorities have said.

The two vaccines use different technical approaches. Both are made of viruses that are genetically engineered so that they make a protein from the Ebola virus. The Merck vaccine uses vesicular stomatitis virus, which can cause a mouth disease in livestock but rarely in people. The Glaxo vaccine uses a chimpanzee adenovirus, which causes a type of common cold in chimps but is not known to cause illness in people.

Safety is considered crucial for vaccines because they are typically given to large numbers of healthy people. Indeed, companies developing Ebola vaccines have been seeking some indemnity should side effects emerge once the vaccines are used for mass inoculations, especially since the vaccines are being developed on a crash schedule.

This week, the Department of Health and Human Services[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/h/health_and_human_services_department/index.html?inline=nyt-org] said it was granting such liability protection against legal claims brought in the United States for the Glaxo and Merck vaccines, as well as one being developed by Johnson & Johnson[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/business/companies/johnson_and_johnson/index.html?inline=nyt-org].

In related news, Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, said it was committed to spending up to $300 million to purchase up to 12 million courses of Ebola vaccine to immunize people in countries affected by the outbreak. It said it would act as soon as a vaccine was recommended for use by the World Health Organization.

Gavi, once known as the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization, is a public-private partnership funded by various governments, companies and charities including the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141211eacc003h3


World Briefing
World; Africa
Mali: No Ebola Cases, Ministry Says
By REUTERS
109 words
12 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Mali[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/mali/index.html?inline=nyt-geo] has no cases of the Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] virus now that the last patient in the country has recovered and left a hospital, the Ministry of Health said Thursday. Six people have died of Ebola in Mali; two others who contracted the virus have recovered. At least 6,533 people have died of the virus in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea, according to the World Health Organization. Mali has not yet been officially declared Ebola-free, a status acquired by Nigeria and Senegal, which had cases of the virus this year.

* Liberia Bans Election Rallies to Fight Ebola [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/05/world/africa/liberia-bans-election-rallies-to-fight-ebola-.html]

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141212eacc000p4


Foreign Desk; SECTA
A Top News Photographer Dies on Assignment in Liberia
By ASHLEY SOUTHALL
517 words
12 December 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
10
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Michel du Cille, a Washington Post photographer who won three Pulitzer Prizes for his images capturing people in dire circumstances -- from a natural disaster in Colombia to drugs and poverty in Miami to a prestigious military hospital dispensing unsatisfactory care in Washington -- died on Thursday while on assignment in Liberia. He was 58.

Mr. du Cille suffered a heart attack and collapsed during a hike from a village where he had been covering the Ebola crisis with a reporter, The Post's executive editor, Martin Baron, said in a note to the newsroom. He was driven to a hospital, where he was declared dead.

''We are all heartbroken,'' Mr. Baron said. ''We have lost a beloved colleague and one of the world's most accomplished photographers.''

In a career that spanned more than 30 years, Mr. du Cille joined The Miami Herald in the 1980s before moving to The Post as a picture editor in 1988. He was promoted to director of photography in 2007 but returned to the field as a full-time photojournalist in 2012, according to The Post.

He won his first Pulitzer for spot news in 1986 with Carol Guzy, also a Herald photographer, for their coverage of the eruption of Colombia's Nevado del Ruiz volcano in 1985. He won the feature category in 1988 for a series portraying the decay and subsequent rehabilitation of a Miami housing project overrun by crack cocaine.

With the Post reporters Dana Priest and Anne Hull, he won a Pulitzer in 2008 for an investigative series on the poor treatment at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. The series prompted an outcry from members of Congress and veterans' advocates and led to several investigations of the Department of Veterans Affairs' health care system.

Mr. du Cille was born in Jamaica in 1956. He credited his initial interest in photography to his father, who worked as a newspaper reporter in Jamaica and the United States.

''I always had an interest in journalism, and my father introduced me to the photographer at the small paper where he worked,'' he told The Post. ''So I just decided in my junior year of high school that this is what I wanted to do, and they gave me a job.''

He studied journalism at Indiana University. He received a master's from Ohio University.

He is survived by his wife, Nikki Kahn, a Post photographer, and two children from a previous marriage.

Recently, he had been covering Ebola patients and those who care for them. In an essay in October, he wrote that he felt compelled to cover the crisis despite the risk of becoming infected.

''He was completely devoted to the story of Ebola, and he was determined to stay on the story despite its risks,'' Mr. Baron said. ''That is the sort of courage and passion he displayed throughout his career.''

His travels to West Africa led Syracuse University to disinvite him in October from participating in a journalism workshop after a student expressed concern.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141212eacc0004p


First Draft
Today in Politics
NEW YORK TIMES
1607 words
12 December 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
Spending Bill Passes as Party Alliances Crack

Good Friday morning from Washington, where the government funding bill squeaked through after a day of nail-biting in the House, President Obama skipped out of the photo line at the White House Christmas party to take care of congressional business, and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts is finding new friends in Obama world.

The near-death experience of a bipartisan, governmentwide funding bill on Thursday highlighted a fundamental problem with Congress at the moment: the lost art of compromise.

As veteran lawmakers and congressional aides watched the struggles of a measure that was backed by the majority leadership of both the House and the Senate as well as the White House, they acknowledged that the deep partisanship and procedural disorder of recent years have taken a significant toll on the ability of the House and the Senate to get things done.

“You have a real breakdown in the institution, and this is the result of that breakdown,” said Representative Doc Hastings, the retiring Washington Republican. He presided over much of the House session as the funding measure came under attack from two directions just hours before the government was to run out of money. It finally passed on a vote of 219 to 206 just before 10 p.m.

With both parties increasingly playing to their base constituencies, lawmakers are apt to oppose any legislation that does not fully meet their demands even if their own leaders had a hand in creating it.

In this case, conservative Republicans deserted the bill because they saw it as doing nothing to challenge Mr. Obama on his immigration policy. Many House Democrats, encouraged by their leader, Nancy Pelosi, refused to vote for a measure that contained many provisions they favored because of a single provision they saw as too generous to Wall Street banks.

Congress used to be a place where lawmakers tried to cut the best deal they could. Then they would back the final product even if it had elements they didn’t like as a way to advance their own priorities. If every lawmaker insists on ideological perfection in every bill, not much can get done.

– Carl Hulse

Former Obama Employees Throw Support to Warren

A group of more than 300 former campaign staff members for President Obama will release an open letter[http://readyforwarren.com/obama-alum-letter/] on Friday morning calling for Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts to seek the Democratic Party’s nomination for president.

The signers each worked on Mr. Obama’s successful White House campaigns or at his political organization, now called Organizing for Action, mostly in midlevel jobs as field organizers or as part of the campaigns’ groundbreaking data and technology efforts. They include Rajeev Chopra, who served as chief information officer for both of Mr. Obama’s presidential bids; Catherine Bracy, who directed the 2012 campaign’s tech field office in San Francisco; and Judith Freeman, who served as new media field manager on the 2008 campaign.

Their open support for Ms. Warren is a stark departure from the path taken by most senior Obama veterans, many of whom have attached themselves to “super PACs” and nonprofit groups helping to pave the way for Hillary Rodham Clinton‘s likely presidential bid.

“These former Obama staffers are joining the growing momentum behind Elizabeth Warren because we believe in Warren’s vision for our country, and we’d love to see her run in 2016,” said Erica Sagrans, an Obama alum who now the campaign manager for Ready for Warren, a pro-Warren super PAC.

While the letter does not mention Mrs. Clinton, its language suggests that her nascent campaign — already pre-emptively embraced by many in the Democratic establishment — deserves a challenge from Ms. Warren.

“We believed in an unlikely candidate who no one thought had a chance,” the letter states. “Rising income inequality is the challenge of our times, and we want someone who will stand up for working families and take on the Wall Street banks and special interests that took down our economy.”

The letter is the latest in a series of overlapping efforts[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/09/us/politics/looking-to-nudge-senator-elizabeth-warren-into-2016-presidential-race.html] by liberal organizations, donors and others to pull Ms. Warren into the race.

– Nicholas Confessore

What’s the Color of Legislative Despair? Blue

Any visitor to the Capitol must have wondered what happened on Thursday afternoon when the House went into an unexpected break and a loud wail went through the congressional press corps followed by this strange exclamation: “Blue screen!”

Here’s the backstory. In recent years, the sign of an imminent legislative collapse — and a potentially long day and night ahead — was signaled by the House suddenly going into recess with no explanation. C-Span, which is on most television monitors around the Capitol, would respond by showing a blue screen for long stretches with a notice that the House was in recess subject to the call of the chair.

It quickly became known as the Blue Screen of Death because it meant that some piece of legislation was in serious trouble.

On Thursday, the blue screen was initially replaced by a nice photo of the Capitol and video from earlier debate.

But it looked like a Blue Screen of Death just the same.

– Carl Hulse

Government Printer Renamed for Digital Age

Even the federal government is giving up on print.

The venerable Government Printing Office, which produces reams of government documents for bureaucratic consumption and sells them to the general public, is about to be rebranded, acknowledging the fact that the office doesn’t print that much anymore.

A provision[http://rules.house.gov/sites/republicans.rules.house.gov/files/113-1/PDF/113-HR83sa-ES-H.pdf] in the omnibus spending measure would change the name of the Government Printing Office, which has operated under that name since 1861, to the “Government Publishing Office.” It’s part of a shift in strategy that the office’s leadership has been promoting for several years.

“G.P.O. is transforming from a print-centric to a content-centric publishing operation,” Davita Vance-Cooks, the head of the office, said in congressional testimony last year.

According to a 2013 report[http://www.gpo.gov/pdfs/about/GPO_NAPA_Report_FINAL.pdf] on the office’s future, the demand for federal print publications had declined by half over the previous two decades. That’s a challenge for the office, because it gets only a small amount of funding from Congress each year and relies on government agencies that use it to publish documents and from sales of documents to the public.

So how is the office going to refine its mission for the digital age? Its plans involve using the Internet to better preserve and search for government documents, and developing new ways of delivering information to its customers, such as mobile apps and e-books.

– Andrew Siddons

What We’re Watching Today

President Obama meets with Prince Mohammed bin Nayef bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Saudi Arabia’s interior minister, at the White House to discuss efforts to contain the Islamic State.

The Senatecould vote on a $585 billion[http://thehill.com/policy/defense/226873-levin-predicts-defense-vote-friday] Defense Department bill.

Margaret Hamburg, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, speaks at a workshop[http://www.fda.gov/EmergencyPreparedness/Counterterrorism/MedicalCountermeasures/AboutMCMi/ucm424037.htm] about finding an Ebola vaccine.

The Department of Labor releases its latest reading on inflation at 8:30 a.m.

Spending Vote Steals Show at White House Party

As the House of Representatives tried to avert a government shutdown on Thursday night, President Obama was mingling across town with much of Washington’s press corps.

The White House holds several holiday parties every December. On Thursday night, a few hundred print journalists turned up to take photos with the president and first lady and nibble on stone crab claws, shrimp and lamb chops while they admired the glittering decorations in the mansion’s first floor.

Of course, with the drama unfolding at the Capitol, Mr. Obama could not completely focus on socializing.

A tipster told First Draft that at one point in the evening, Katie Fallon, Mr. Obama’s legislative affairs director, dashed to the bottom floor of the East Wing, past a line of people waiting to take pictures with the president. Five minutes later, Mr. Obama jogged past the line of waiting reporters and editors and smiled.

“I’ve got to keep the government open,” he said. “I’ll be right back.”

– Alan Rappeport

Our Favorites From Today’s Times

The director of the C.I.A. defended the agency’s interrogation tactics[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/12/us/politics/cia-director-brennan-torture-report.html?&hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&module=first-column-region®ion=top-news&WT.nav=top-news] but avoided the issue of torture in a rare news conference.

A move to roll back a financial regulation that big banks dislike nearly scuttled the passage[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/12/business/furor-over-move-to-aid-big-banks-in-funding-bill.html?smid=tw-share] of the House’s $1.1 trillion spending bill.

The Senate Foreign Relations Committee voted to officially authorize[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/12/us/politics/senate-panel-approves-limited-fight-against-isis-reopening-war-powers-debate.html?smprod=nytcore-iphone&smid=nytcore-iphone-share] the use of force against the militant group the Islamic State.

William P. Wilson, the television aide for Senator John F. Kennedy in his 1960 presidential debate against Richard M. Nixon, died at 86[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/12/us/william-p-wilson-kennedys-tv-aide-for-historic-1960-debate-is-dead-at-86.html?ref=politics].

What We’re Reading Elsewhere

Bloomberg reports that Jeb Bush’s ties to private equity could pose problems similar to what Mitt Romney faced[http://www.bloomberg.com/politics/features/2014-12-11/jeb-bush-has-a-mitt-romney-problem] in 2012 if he decides to run for president.

Senator Mark Udall, Democrat of Colorado, tells Esquire that the full C.I.A. torture report needs to be declassified.[http://www.esquire.com/blogs/politics/mark-udall-0115]

The State Department is failing to turn over government documents[http://news.yahoo.com/delays-plague-hillary-clintons-state-dept-files-184514476--election.html] that cover Hillary Rodham Clinton’s tenure as secretary of state to The Associated Press and other organizations that have filed Freedom of Information Act requests.

Former Gov. Ed Rendell of Pennsylvania offered sharp criticism of Gov. Chris Christie [http://www.nj.com/politics/index.ssf/2014/12/ed_rendell_unleashes_on_pathetic_chris_christie_for_being_a_cowboys_fan.html] of New Jersey, according to NJ.com, calling him “pathetic” for being a fan of the Dallas Cowboys.

Like this? Get First Draft delivered to your inbox[http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics/].

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141212eacc000xd


U.S.
Your Friday Briefing
By TATIANA SCHLOSSBERG
979 words
12 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Good morning.

Here’s what you need to know:

• Keeping the government open.

The $1.1 trillion spending bill[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/12/us/congress-spending-bill.html?_r=0] passed by the House just before the midnight deadline to avert a government shutdown now heads to the Senate.

The legislation is expected to pass there with bipartisan support in the coming days.

The House voted, 219 to 206, despite Representative Nancy Pelosi, minority leader and one of the Obama administration’s strongest allies, breaking with the president over rolling back regulation for Wall Street.

• Climate deal.

The final session of the U.N. climate conference in Lima, Peru, opens today with an international agreement on caps for carbon emissions as yet unreached.

A deal being worked out may require all nations to put forward plans over the next six months to cut their own emissions.

• London airport woes.

Airspace in London was restricted[http://rt.com/uk/213971-uk-heathrow-power-outage/] today because of a computer failure, air traffic controllers said, creating flight delays and cancellations throughout Europe.

Heathrow Airport — one of the world’s busiest — reopened by noon Eastern time, but delays ricocheted through the international air system.

• Lull in Ukraine.

Ukraine saw its first 24-hour pause in violence[http://bigstory.ap.org.proxy.bc.edu/article/b9c4f47da0704fa3851a3a5b7c1a08e1/ukraine-truce-results-1st-casualty-free-day] since the war between the government and separatist militias began seven months ago. The Russian foreign minister said today that peace talks will likely happen soon.

• California storm subsides.

Fear of mudslides is growing in Northern California, where more than 200,000 are without power[http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-30442290] after a huge rainstorm.

• Election in Japan.

Japanese voters head to the polls on Sunday[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/13/world/asia/grudgingly-japanese-voters-look-set-to-stick-with-abe.html?ref=world] in a snap election for the parliament, which Prime Minister Shinzo Abe called in response to the Japanese economy’s slip into recession.

Many voters appear to support Mr. Abe, although grudgingly given the paucity of options.

• Deadly blasts in Nigeria.

Boko Haram, the Islamic extremist group, appears to be behind twin bombings that killed at least 30 people[http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/dec/12/30-killed-twin-bombs-nigeria-jos-elections] in the city of Jos.

The attacks came right after the government announced new elections for February, in which security is likely to be a central issue. The Islamist insurgency[http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/12/11/world/africa/boko-haram-nigeria-maps.html] has killed more than 10,000 Nigerians this year.

• Russia seizes the moment.

Russia[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/12/world/europe/russia-us-cia-torture-report.html] blasted the United States over the C.I.A. torture report released this week.

Meanwhile, the C.I.A. director defended the agency’s[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/12/us/politics/cia-director-brennan-torture-report.html] use of harsh interrogation tactics, refusing to call them torture, in a Senate hearing Thursday.

MARKETS

• Wall Street stocks are down sharply, European stocks closed off more than 2 percent, and Asian indexes closed mixed.

• Oil fell another 4 percent today to under $58 a barrel.

The International Energy Agency again cut its outlook for demand growth in 2015 and predicted the global oil glut would get worse next year.

NOTEWORTHY

• Ebola vaccine delay.

A trial for an Ebola vaccine[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/12/business/geneva-hospital-pauses-test-of-an-ebola-vaccine.html?ref=health] licensed by Merck in Geneva was delayed after four patients complained of joint pain after receiving the drug.

The trial, in which 59 volunteers in the fight against Ebola were given the vaccine, is expected to resume next month.

• Butter emergency.

Japan is facing a butter shortage[http://abcnews.go.com/International/wireStory/japan-runs-short-butter-dairy-farms-dwindle-27549279], a result of stressed-out cows, aging farmers and economic roadblocks.

Groceries are limiting customers a maximum of two packages each and the government is arranging for emergency imports.

• Wizards, rejoice.

J.K. Rowling updates her Harry Potter website, Pottermore[https://www.pottermore.com/en-us], with new writings each day from today until Dec. 23.

Highlights include new information about Harry Potter’s arch-nemesis, Draco Malfoy, and Florean Fortescue. That’s the owner of the ice cream shop in Diagon Alley, in case your memory slipped a little.

• Standing up for children.

Michelle Obama gives the keynote address for the Brookings Institution webcast forum[http://www.brookings.edu/events/2014/12/12-improving-girls-education] on children’s rights and girls’ education.

• On the silver screen.

“Exodus: Gods and Kings[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/12/movies/exodus-gods-and-kings-ridley-scotts-biblical-drama.html?ref=movies],” the story of Moses leading the Jews out of Egypt directed by Ridley Scott and starring Christian Bale, opens today.

At another end of the cultural spectrum is “Top Five[http://www.topfivemovie.com/],” written and directed by Chris Rock, who also stars.

Here’s what else is in theaters[http://www.nytimes.com/movies/intheaters.html].

• And the sequence is complete.

Saturday is the last sequential (American-style) date of the century — 12/13/14. The next one won’t be until 01/02/03, in 89 years.

BACK STORY

Millions of pilgrims are streaming to Mexico City for the annual festival of Our Lady of Guadalupe[http://catholicherald.com/stories/La-Virgen,27823], a Christian holy day and a national holiday in Mexico.

The object of their devotion is an Indian peasant’s cloak with the portrait of the Virgin Mary, which was said to have miraculously been imprinted on this date in 1531 after he encountered her apparition there.

The 4-foot-8-inch cloak has never been subjected to a complete scientific analysis the way that the Shroud of Turin[https://www.shroud.com/] has. The written historical record is also incomplete, though it dates to 1648.

But by all accounts, its fabric and colors are exceptionally well-preserved, particularly given the lack of varnish. There is also scant evidence of brush-strokes or under-drawing.

The most incredible discovery of the cloak, however, was made in an examination of the eyes[http://web.archive.org/web/20071209175102/http://www.interlupe.com.mx/8-e.html] of the image.

A 20-year study by José Aste Tonsmann of the Mexican Center of Guadalupan Studies concludes that inside the eyes are highly detailed, microscopic pictures[http://www.catholiceducation.org/en/culture/catholic-contributions/science-sees-what-mary-saw-from-juan-diegos-tilma.html] of at least 13 people.

The engineer believes they are the reflection of the witnesses in the room the moment that the peasant, Juan Diego, unfurled his cloak and the image appeared.

Victoria Shannon contributed reporting.

Your Morning Briefing is posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com[mailto:briefing@nytimes.com].

Want to get the briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up[http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/nytnow/].

Chris Rock, with the actress Rosario Dawson, wrote, directed and stars in "Top Five," which opens in theaters today. | Ali Paige Goldstein/Paramount Pictures

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141212eacc002bd


A
MALI: NO EBOLA CASES, MINISTRY SAYS
31 words
12 December 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
16
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Mali's Ministry of Health reports that no cases of Ebola virus have emerged since last patient in country recovered and left hospital. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141213eacc0005s


B
HOSPITAL PAUSES TEST OF AN EBOLA VACCINE LICENSED TO MERCK
By ANDREW POLLACK
45 words
12 December 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
3
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
University Hospitals of Geneva medical center says it will stop test injections of experimental Ebola vaccine, licensed to Merck until January 2015, after some volunteers report joint pain. Photo (M)

Photograph

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141213eacc0005t


Lens
Multimedia
Michel du Cille: A Photographer With Compassion and Respect
By JAMES ESTRIN
1075 words
12 December 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
Michel du Cille[http://www.washingtonpost.com/lifestyle/style/documenting-with-dignity-in-the-ebola-zone/2014/10/19/07c41fd2-5638-11e4-ba4b-f6333e2c0453_story.html], a three-time Pulitzer Prize-winning photojournalist at The Washington Post, died on Thursday[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/12/business/media/michel-du-cille-washington-post-announces-death-of-a-top-photographer.html] while photographing Liberia’s ongoing Ebola crisis in Liberia. Mr. du Cille, 58, had a heart attack and collapsed during a hike from a village in Bong County in Liberia, where he had been working with the Post reporter Justin Jouvenal.

Mr. du Cille had worked often in Africa, a continent about which he cared deeply. He had said in a phone conversation in October that the continent was undercovered by the Western news media. He had photographed the Ebola outbreak in September and November and returned to Liberia on Tuesday after a trip to Ethiopia, where he attended the Addis Foto Fest. After completing his first trip to Liberia this year, Mr. du Cille wrote an essay for the October edition of News Photographer Magazine.

“In more than 40 years as a photojournalist I have taken pride in offering dignity to the subjects I photograph, especially those who are sick or in distress while in front of my camera,” he wrote in the magazine. “But my recent photographic assignment to cover the Ebola outbreak in Liberia proved exceedingly challenging. Respect is often the last and only thing there is that the world can offer to a deceased or dying person. Notwithstanding my presence at the scene with a camera, it becomes almost too perplexing and it is hard to show that necessary respect. The camera itself seems to be a betrayal of the dignity I so hope to offer. Sometimes the harshness of a gruesome scene simply cannot be sanitized. How does one give dignity to a woman who has died and is lying on the ground, unattended, uncovered, and alone as people walk by or gaze from a distance? But I believe that the world must see how horrible and dehumanizing are the effects of Ebola; the work must be done. So one moves with tender care, gingerly, without extreme intrusion.

“It is exceedingly difficult not to be a feeling human being while covering the Ebola crisis. Indeed, one has to feel compassion and above all try to show respect.”

Mr. du Cille shared a spot news Pulitzer in 1986 with his Miami Herald colleague Carol Guzy for their photographs of the Nevado del Ruiz volcanic eruption[http://media.miamiherald.com/static/media/projects/2014/documenting-the-world/#article-wrapper] in Colombia. He won a feature photo Pulitzer in 1988 for his photos of crack cocaine addicts[http://media.miamiherald.com/static/media/projects/2014/documenting-the-world/#article-wrapper] at a housing project, which also appeared in The Herald. At The Washington Post he shared a Pulitzer Prize in 2008 with Dana Priest and Anne Hull for an investigative series on the treatment of veterans at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center.

Mr. du Cille became The Post’s director of photography in 2007, and he was equally dedicated to both of his roles, said Linda Davidson, a staff photographer.

“He was a photographer’s photographer and a great boss,” she said. “Photojournalism was something he ate, slept and drank. You could call him no matter the time of day or night, and that’s important. If I was in jail he would be the first guy I would call — and that happened during the Egyptian revolution.”

He was married to the Post photographer Nikki Kahn and is also survived by two children from a previous marriage.

“He was the love of my life,” Ms. Kahn said in a phone conversation Thursday night. “I knew him as a photographer first, and I think I fell in love with his passion for journalism. The only solace is that he died doing exactly what he wanted to be doing.”

Mr. du Cille was born in Kingston, Jamaica, in 1956. His father was a reporter both in Jamaica and in the United States. While still in high school, Mr. du Cille began his photography career at The Gainesville Times in Georgia. In 1981, he received his undergraduate degree in journalism from Indiana University, and later a master’s degree in journalism from Ohio University.

Donald R. Winslow was a fellow photography student at Indiana, and he recalled that Mr. du Cille didn’t have the advantages enjoyed by most other students. Undaunted, Mr. du Cille “worked harder and smarter.” Other students lent him cameras and lenses, Mr. Winslow said, “and they would instantly regret it because Michel’s pictures would be better.”

Throughout his career, Mr. du Cille was known as a generous mentor and teacher, helping hundreds of young photographers. Determined to cover the stories that mattered to him, he went to Africa after having been declared to be in remission from multiple myeloma, a cancer of the plasma cells.

Despite his passion — as well as his commitment to telling the Ebola story — his invitation to speak at Syracuse University in October was revoked when some students expressed fear for their safety. Mr. du Cille was not only asymptomatic, but had also passed the quarantine period without incident.

“They missed a great teaching opportunity here for the students, to show them how to report the facts and practice good journalism,” Mr. du Cille told Time magazine[http://time.com/3516761/syracuse-ebola/]. “Instead they went the alarmist route.”

Mr. du Cille will be remembered as a passionate storyteller who cared deeply for his subjects and strove for accuracy and providing context.

“To understand Michel you have to understand that he had a deep moral compass,” said Mr. Winslow, who is the editor of the National Press Photographers Association magazine. “At the same time, he was the most kind and gentle person I knew in this profession.”

Ms. Guzy, who is now a Washington Post staff photographer, said in a Facebook message last night that he was not only a paragon of professionalism, but a true friend. His death was doubly hard on her, since her own sister had died recently.

“Michel du Cille — a man of decency, integrity, dignity and grace,” she wrote. “Profound sorrow to Nikki and his family. He was a gentle soul and a journalist of conviction and passion. The world will be an emptier place without his light. This is the saddest of days. Michel called from Africa the day my sister passed and expressed regret that he couldn’t be here for me. That was the kind of person we all lost.”

Follow @JamesEstrin[https://twitter.com/JamesEstrin], @donaldrwinslow[https://twitter.com/donaldrwinslow] and @nytimesphoto[https://twitter.com/#!/nytimesphoto] on Twitter. Lens is also on Facebook[http://www.facebook.com/nytimesphoto].

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141212eacc001up


Health
Ebola Contest Brings Ideas for Cooling Suits and Virus Repellents
By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.
616 words
13 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The well-prepared Ebola fighter in West Africa may soon have some new options: protective gear that zips off like a wet suit, ice-cold underwear to make life inside the sweltering suits more bearable, or lotions that go on like bug spray and kill or repel the lethal virus.

Those ideas are among the contenders to win the Ebola “Grand Challenges” contest[http://www.ebolagrandchallenge.net/] announced in October by the United States Agency for International Development[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/a/agency_for_international_development/index.html?inline=nyt-org], or among those being considered by the agency without having formally entered the contest.

All still need to undergo testing, and some may prove impractical, but the 900 contest submissions “blew the roof off the number of responses we’ve ever had,” said Wendy Taylor, director of U.S.A.I.D.'s Center for Accelerating Innovation and Impact.

The agency’s Grand Challenges[http://www.usaid.gov/grandchallenges], modeled on those begun a decade ago[http://query.nytimes.com.proxy.bc.edu/gst/fullpage.html?res=9F07E1DC1331F935A35751C1A9639C8B63] by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, have produced some nifty inventions, the best known of which is a device for helping women in obstructed labor[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/14/health/new-tool-to-ease-difficult-births-a-plastic-bag.html] that was invented by an Argentine auto mechanic after he saw a YouTube video on using a plastic bag to get a cork out of a wine bottle.

The preliminary results of the Ebola challenge were revealed Friday, and Ms. Taylor said the agency would spend about $1.7 million testing the most promising possibilities.

Some, including various brands of cooling undergarments, are repurposed off-the-shelf products. The heavy-duty SteeleVest[http://www.steelevest.com/index.asp?page=Products&SubCategoryID=2], for example, is used by the military, some industrial workers and, according to the company’s website, vacationers and fishermen. Technologically, it is simple: a fabric vest with pockets into which gel packs fresh out of the freezer are inserted.

A higher-tech alternative is Qore athletic gear[http://www.qoreperformance.com/], which includes compression sleeves and shorts that press cooling packs to the forearm and groin, where arteries run close to the surface.

Testing is needed, Ms. Taylor said, to see if the vest is comfortable enough and the sleeves cooling enough. Doctors and nurses working in midday tropical heat are often near collapse after 45-minute shifts. Anything that prolongs that period would let them see more patients — and that is important because there is a severe shortage of health care workers to fight Ebola.

Other contenders include Zylast[http://www.zylast.com/MediaCenter.aspx], an antiseptic skin gel that its makers claim kills microbes for up to six hours, even after hand washing.

To see if it might be effective during the slow, dangerous process of taking off a protective suit, Zylast must be tested specifically against the Ebola virus and for its durability on skin running with sweat, Ms. Taylor said. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health will do the tests or provide advice if an independent laboratory does them, she added.

A spray-on barrier to repel microbes with electrostatic fields will also be tested, in the hopes that it will let protective gear be fashioned out of breathable fabrics. However, whether it can repel infectious vomit and diarrhea[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/symptoms/diarrhea/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] remains to be seen.

A joint team of engineering and medical students from Johns Hopkins University and the Under Armour clothing company, both based in Baltimore, are refining a new type of protective suit[http://www.jhpiego.org/content/jhu-jhpiego-hosted-design-challenge-produces-promising-concepts-improve-protective-gear-ebol]. It is meant to be cooler than current versions and removable in 60 seconds because it uses a wet-suit-style back zipper and breakaway leg seams. It also has a big built-in face shield, which would allow wearers to see better and make them look less scary to patients.

“You can see their smile,” Ms. Taylor said.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141212eacd003eb


U.S.
Key Points From the Spending Bill
By ROBERT PEAR
315 words
13 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Congress is finishing work on a $1.1 trillion bill that finances operations of most federal agencies and includes dozens of policy riders and directives. Here are some highlights.

Dodd-Frank: Relaxes restrictions on big banks’ trading of certain risky financial instruments known as swaps. Restrictions were imposed by the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial law.

Campaign Finance: Greatly increases federal limits on individual contributions to national political parties and their congressional campaign committees. Initial calculations suggest that the bill would expand the amount that any one person could donate to party committees to more than $777,000 each year from what is now a maximum of $97,200.

Pensions: Allows trustees of certain multiemployer pension plans to cut retirees’ benefits, keeping the plans solvent without a government bailout.

E.P.A.: Cuts funds for the Environmental Protection Agency; prohibits the agency from regulating the lead content of ammunition or fishing tackle.

Health: Provides $5.4 billion to fight Ebola in the United States and abroad. Leaves the Affordable Care Act largely intact; limits certain subsidy payments to health insurance companies.

Military: Provides $64 billion for “overseas contingency operations,” including military campaigns in Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria

Miscellaneous:

Prohibits the Fish and Wildlife Service from listing the sage grouse as an endangered species.

Prevents the Army Corps of Engineers from regulating farm ponds and irrigation ditches under the Clean Water Act.

Prohibits an increase on the $230,700 annual salary of Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.

Requires the Obama administration to include white potatoes in a nutrition program for women, infants and children.

Forbids legalization of marijuana sales in the District of Columbia.

* Battle Over Spending Measure Shifts to the Senate[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/13/us/battle-over-spending-measure-shifts-to-the-senate.html]

* House Narrowly Passes Bill to Avoid Shutdown; $1.1 Trillion in Spending [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/12/us/congress-spending-bill.html]

* Spending Bill Hits Snags, but Congress Thinks It Can Avoid Shutdown[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/11/us/trillion-dollar-spending-pact-angers-campaign-finance-watchdogs.html]

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141212eacd00412


N.Y. / Region
Poll Finds Unease in New York After Garner Case; Challenge for de Blasio
By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM and MARJORIE CONNELLY
1342 words
13 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Mayor Bill de Blasio[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/d/bill_de_blasio/index.html?inline=nyt-per] rose to power promising a new era of cultural comity in New York City, generating big expectations that he could heal longstanding urban divisions over ethnicity, money and class.

But amid a national uproar over police and race, prompted in part by the death of an unarmed black man, Eric Garner, on Staten Island, New Yorkers now think race relations in their city are deeply strained. More than half of residents — blacks and whites alike — say the city is headed in the wrong direction, according to a poll by The New York Times and Siena College.

That unease is an unexpected turn for Mr. de Blasio, a liberal Democrat who has staked his mayoralty on remaking the way New Yorkers interact with law enforcement. But the poll’s findings suggest the mayor’s efforts have been buffeted, and at times overtaken, by events outside of his control.

The survey, conducted this month in the days after a grand jury declined to issue criminal charges in the Garner case, found that two-thirds of New Yorkers disagreed with the decision and believed the white police officer who placed Mr. Garner in a chokehold shortly before his death should have been indicted.

Strikingly, Mr. de Blasio’s attempts to curb the aggressive policing tactics favored by his predecessor, Michael R. Bloomberg, received little credit. Three out of five New Yorkers said the mayor had made little difference in improving police and community relations, and one in five said he had made the dynamic worse.

Nearly half — 48 percent — of respondents said race relations in the city were bad in general, up from 30 percent at the end of Mayor Bloomberg’s tenure.

Residents found Mr. de Blasio to be calming if somewhat ineffective in his response to the grand jury’s decision in the Garner case.

He tried to please protesters as well as the police[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/05/nyregion/mayor-de-blasio-striving-to-back-police-and-protesters-in-eric-garner-case.html] in the wake of the Garner case. But only 28 percent of respondents said his middle-ground approach improved the situation; 37 percent said it made things worse. Still, residents gave Mr. de Blasio higher marks than former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani received after the fatal shooting by the police of Amadou Diallo[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/d/amadou_diallo/index.html] in 1999, when he was widely seen as exacerbating tensions.

Mr. de Blasio’s overall approval rating is at 52 percent, within the margin of sampling error from the 49 percent he received in the spring.

In a noticeable shift from the last administration, when Mr. Bloomberg received comparable approval ratings from blacks and whites, Mr. de Blasio faces a noticeable race gap — and it is growing. Seventy percent of black people say they approve of his job performance now; only 32 percent of white people agree. In April, 59 percent of blacks approved, and 38 percent of whites also approved.

Asked how much the mayor cares about their problems, 41 percent of blacks answered “a lot”; only 17 percent of whites said the same.

“It seems he’s more in tune with the people — and when I say ‘the people,’ I mean specifically black people,” Ben Robinson, 56, a retired construction worker in Brooklyn, who is African-American, said in a follow-up interview after the poll was conducted. “We might stand a better chance with him than with anybody else.”

In fact, New Yorkers are deeply divided by race on a variety of matters, from the performance of the Police Department (67 percent of whites are positive, 76 percent of blacks are negative) to opinions on the first lady, Chirlane McCray (nearly twice as many blacks approve of her as whites).

One thing whites and blacks do agree on, however, is that the city is on the wrong track: 52 percent of New Yorkers agree with that statement, the highest since 2011 and up sharply from 42 percent a year ago.

New Yorkers are also now evenly divided on whether the mayor shares their priorities — a change from April, when 58 percent said the mayor was focused on issues important to them, and 37 percent said he was not.

A clear majority also said minorities in New York are not treated fairly by the city’s criminal justice system, and most think police officers are treated too leniently.

Over all, the poll presents a snapshot of a city still learning the quirks of its relatively new leader, with some residents still unsure what to make of a man who was virtually unknown outside political circles until summer 2013.

His habitual lateness? Given the choice, most New Yorkers say it is rude, rather than irrelevant, that Mr. de Blasio frequently shows up late to official events. (In follow-up interviews, respondents said the mayor’s tardiness at a Rockaways memorial for plane-crash victims was a particular sore spot.)

His travel? The mayor’s jaunts to Italy and Washington mattered little to New Yorkers, more than half of whom said he was sufficiently focused on his job at City Hall.

His family? Thirty-nine percent said Mr. de Blasio, more often than other elected officials, used his wife and children for political purposes; 48 percent said the mayor’s family focus was comparable to other politicians’.

Empathy remains an effective asset for the mayor, with 64 percent of residents saying he cares about their problems and needs. But in follow-up interviews, some New Yorkers said they were not quite sure the mayor had matched rhetoric with results.

“I like the direction he is moving in, as far as openness and willingness to work with other people,” said Wyatt Manor, 41, an advertising salesman on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.

“I am concerned about his effectiveness,” added Mr. Manor, who is white. “There are certain things like economic issues and the future of the city that he’s done a lot of talking about, but I would like more information. I would like to see what’s been done.”

More than half said that New York was as safe as it was a year ago, before Mr. de Blasio became mayor, and that quality of life has remained about the same.

Crisis management has emerged as a strong suit for the mayor, whose bumpy handling of the snowstorms last winter has been usurped by widespread plaudits for his leadership during the Ebola outbreak.

The poll of 760 adult New Yorkers was conducted Dec. 4 to 10. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus four percentage points.

Don Levy, director of the Siena College Research Institute, said New Yorkers’ growing pessimism on race relations was “a dramatic change” and a sign of how deeply the protests and demonstrations of the past few weeks had entered the urban psyche.

“It’s like the city woke up and said, ‘We’re not who we thought we were a year ago,'” Mr. Levy said.

A clear majority also saysaid that New Yorkers of color are not treated fairly by the city’s criminal justice system, and most think police officers are treated too leniently.Marina Stefan contributed reporting.

* How the Poll Was Conducted[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/13/nyregion/how-the-poll-was-conducted.html]

Mayor Bill de Blasio on Staten Island last week after a grand jury there declined to indict a white police officer in the chokehold death of a black man. | Richard Perry/The New York Times | Protesters outside the Mount Sinai United Christian Church on Staten Island last week, where Mr. de Blasio addressed the grand jury decision in the Eric Garner case. A poll says New Yorkers found the mayor to be calming if somewhat ineffective in his response. | Richard Perry/The New York Times | Officers during protests against the grand jury decision in the Garner case. The poll found racial divisions over various issues in New York, including the performance of the Police Department: 67 percent of whites are positive, while 76 percent of blacks are negative. | Robert Stolarik for The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141212eacd0030g


National Desk; SECTA
Senate Set to Approve $1.1 Trillion in Spending
By ASHLEY PARKER and ROBERT PEAR
1123 words
13 December 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
10
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
WASHINGTON -- The Senate on Friday struggled to pass a $1.1 trillion spending package notable for its expansive spending on military and disease fighting abroad, as well as its scaling back of financial and environmental regulations at home.

In a late-night twist that is emblematic of the dysfunction plaguing the 113th Congress, partisan maneuvering in the Senate disrupted what leaders on both sides had expected to be a relatively smooth path toward final passage. Though the spending deal is still almost sure to pass, the Senate did not reach an agreement late Friday. Lawmakers plan to reconvene on Saturday and work through the weekend if necessary.

On his way out of the Capitol, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority leader, was asked where infighting would ultimately lead: ''It will lead to passing the omnibus,'' he said, referring to the spending package.

As a precaution, the House also passed another short-term funding measure on Friday that would give the Senate until Wednesday evening to push through the bill.

The bipartisan budget agreement approved by the House on Thursday would keep most of the government operating through the fiscal year, averting a shutdown of the government and providing Republicans with a fresh slate when they have control of both houses of Congress in January.

But a late-night maneuver by Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, which delayed a final vote on the spending deal and forced the Senate to meet on Saturday, offered a preview of the internal squabbles that Republican Senate leaders will have to manage next year.

The deal provides $64 billion for military operations in Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan, and $5.4 billion to combat the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. Other winners were big banks, who won a rollback of some portions of the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial regulation law, and political parties, which may now accept huge donations from individual donors.

In a concession to Republicans, many of whom were outraged over President Obama's unilateral decision to defer the deportation of as many as five million undocumented immigrants, the package funds the Department of Homeland Security -- the primary agency responsible for carrying out the president's order -- only through February. At that point, Republicans will have the Senate majority, and believe they will be in a better position to challenge Mr. Obama's policy.

Mr. Reid said that the legislation was ''far from perfect,'' but much better than the likely alternative -- a three-month extension of federal spending at current levels.

The bill, Mr. Reid said, ''gives the Affordable Care Act the secure financial footing that it deserves,'' and provides money for military operations against the Islamic State and for public health efforts against the Ebola virus. He added that while he did not support the provisions of the bill that roll back Dodd-Frank restrictions on big banks, ''legislation is the art of compromise.''

But the bill brought together unlikely allies, uniting progressive Democrats with Tea Party Republicans against a provision that would scale back part of the Dodd-Frank Act that limits the ability of big banks to trade certain risky financial instruments.

Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, in a show of her emerging strength as a leader among progressives, spoke defiantly against the financial regulation provision, but did not seem likely to summon enough colleagues to her cause to stop the bill. She drafted an amendment to eliminate the provision in the spending bill that deals with the Dodd-Frank law.

''Ever since the new financial regulations went into place,'' Ms. Warren said, ''Wall Street has been working behind the scenes to open another loophole so they could gamble with taxpayer money and get bailed out when their risky bets threaten to blow up our financial system. Congress should not put taxpayers on the hook for another bailout.''

Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, joined Ms. Warren, saying that Congress should not be ''handing out Christmas presents to the megabanks and Wall Street.''

On immigration, Mr. Cruz kept his promise to delay the spending package to ensure a vote on an amendment to prevent the president from implementing his executive action. He said he was doing ''everything humanly possible'' to ensure ''the opportunity to make clear each senator's views on whether we will be complicit in funding President Obama's illegal amnesty.''

The bill also reduces funds for the Environmental Protection Agency for the fifth straight year, trimming $60 million from 2014 levels; prohibits the agency from regulating the lead content of ammunition or fishing tackle; and exempts livestock producers from greenhouse gas regulations.

Even as Congress tried to negotiate the final timing of the spending bill on Friday, it passed a bill that sets policy for military spending, authorizing up to $577 billion in the current fiscal year.

By a vote of 89 to 11, the Senate approved the annual defense authorization bill, which the House passed last week, 300 to 119.

The bill authorizes nearly $64 billion for overseas military campaigns, including money to train and equip Syrian rebels fighting the Islamic State. It also allows a 1 percent pay increase for military personnel and establishes new procedures to improve the handling of sexual assault cases in the military.

Several conservatives, led by Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, objected to unrelated provisions of the bill that expand national parks, wilderness areas and other federal lands. ''A bill that defines the needs of our nation's defense is hardly the proper place to trample on private property rights,'' Mr. Coburn said.

In addition to the spending bill, the Senate has other business before members can head home for the holidays. The Senate is expected to approve a House-passed bill retroactively ending dozens of tax breaks. The tax breaks -- like the research and development tax credit for businesses and the deduction for state and local sales taxes for individuals -- will expire all over again on Jan. 1 under the one-year plan approved by the House.

And on Saturday, the Senate will begin working its way through some remaining judicial and other nominations as well. It also hopes to pass a terrorism risk insurance package, which would raise the threshold of terrorism damage at which federal aid is available, to $200 million from $100 million, and is set to expire at the end of this year.

Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, above at right center, forced a delay on a vote in the Senate on Friday night. Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma, right, after a vote on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES; JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS)

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141213eacd0003m


National Desk; SECTA
From Contribution Limits to the Sage Grouse
By ROBERT PEAR
253 words
13 December 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
10
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Congress is finishing work on a $1.1 trillion bill that finances operations of most federal agencies and includes dozens of policy riders and directives. Here are some highlights:

DODD-FRANK Relaxes restrictions on big banks' trading of certain risky financial instruments known as swaps. Restrictions were imposed by the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial law.

CAMPAIGN FINANCE Greatly increases federal limits on individual contributions to national political parties and their congressional campaign committees.

PENSIONS Allows trustees of certain multiemployer pension plans to cut retirees' benefits, keeping the plans solvent without a government bailout.

E.P.A. Cuts funds for the Environmental Protection Agency; prohibits the agency from regulating the lead content of ammunition or fishing tackle.

HEALTH Provides $5.4 billion to fight Ebola in the United States and abroad. Leaves the Affordable Care Act largely intact; limits certain subsidy payments to health insurance companies.

MILITARY Provides $64 billion for ''overseas contingency operations,'' including military campaigns in Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria.

MISCELLANEOUS

Prohibits the Fish and Wildlife Service from listing the sage grouse as an endangered species.

Prevents the Army Corps of Engineers from regulating farm ponds and irrigation ditches under the Clean Water Act.

Prohibits an increase on the $230,700 annual salary of Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.

Requires the Obama administration to include white potatoes in a nutrition program for women, infants and children.

Forbids legalization of marijuana sales in the District of Columbia.

ROBERT PEAR

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141213eacd0006p


A
CONTEST SEEKS NOVEL TOOLS FOR THE FIGHT AGAINST EBOLA
By DONALD G MCNEIL JR
78 words
13 December 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
7
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
United States Agency for International Development reveals some of ideas that were submitted to Ebola 'Grand Challenges' contest, which sought to find new tools for healthcare workers on front lines of Ebola crisis; among ideas being tested are protective gear that zips like wetsuit, ice cold underwear to make hazard gear cooler and bug spray that kills or repels the lethal virus. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141220eacd00007


A
FROM CONTRIBUTION LIMITS TO THE SAGE GROUSE
By ROBERT PEAR
32 words
13 December 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
10
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Highlights of $1.1 trillion spending bill, which includes funding for Middle East military operations and funds to fight Ebola. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141220eacd00016


Editorial
Opinion; Sunday Review
Fragile Gains Against Malaria
By THE EDITORIAL BOARD
461 words
14 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The global battle against malaria, a mosquito-borne infectious disease, continues to yield impressive gains, but it is encountering new obstacles that threaten future progress. It is imperative that funding from all sources be doubled to solidify the achievements and move toward the elimination of malaria from as many countries as possible.

Worldwide, the mortality rate from malaria fell by 47 percent between 2000 and 2013, and by 54 percent in Africa, where about 90 percent of malaria deaths occur, according to the World Malaria Report 2014[http://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/144852/2/9789241564830_eng.pdf], issued by the World Health Organization on Dec. 9. The gains were attributed primarily to more widespread use of insecticide-treated bed nets, accurate diagnostic tests and effective drug therapies.

The progress in protecting children in Africa was especially encouraging. There was an almost 60 percent decline in malaria deaths in children under age five between 2000 and the end of 2013, with most of that improvement occurring since 2007. More bed nets have been produced this year, enough to protect more than 385 million people, so mortality among children is expected to keep dropping sharply.

Even so, there were an estimated 198 million cases of malaria around the world last year, and some 584,000 people died of the disease, most of them children below the age of five. Because millions of people in malarial areas still lack bed nets or access to diagnostic tests and treatments and because resistance to insecticides and drug treatments has been spreading, the W.H.O. considers the gains “fragile.”

A bleak note in this year’s report is that progress on malaria is threatened in West Africa by the Ebola epidemic, which shows what happens when weak public health systems are overwhelmed with a new threat. In the three countries hardest hit by Ebola — Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone — public health facilities have focused on Ebola, which has killed hundreds of their health workers. As a result, access to malaria treatment has fallen sharply in the three countries. The W.H.O. has recommended that in areas heavily affected by Ebola anti-malaria drugs be given to all patients with a fever without waiting for a diagnostic test.

The global campaign against malaria needs more money. Although funding from international donors and governments in affected countries has tripled since 2005, to about $2.6 billion in 2013, it is still only half of the $5.1 billion required to meet global targets for malaria control and elimination. Clearly, more is needed to buttress the health care systems in countries too poor to do it on their own.

Meet The New York Times’s Editorial Board »

Kirando, Tanzania. | Uriel Sinai for The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141213eace0040r


The Texas Tribune
U.S.
Rick Perry: A Governor in Texas Who’s Drawn to the Flame
By ROSS RAMSEY
778 words
14 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
AUSTIN, Tex. — Politicians have the same reaction most of us do to adversity: Run.

That instinct for flight in the face of fright often turns one-day stories into running narratives and hurts the reputations of the runners. They hide. Then they deny. Eventually, they have to show up and take their medicine.

Some — and the argument is that many of the successful ones are in this group — run right into the fire. Gov. Rick Perry[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/p/rick_perry/index.html?inline=nyt-per] has done it over and over, irritating his enemies and delighting his nervous supporters. This is the fellow who held a news conference on his way into the courthouse where he had been indicted on charges of misuse of office, and who headed for the media room to admit he “really stepped in it” when he punctuated a memory lapse with “oops” in a presidential debate. Clay Jenkins, the Dallas County judge, did it twice this year, first by offering shelter for undocumented and unaccompanied minors crossing the border from Mexico, and later by his hands-on reaction when an international Ebola scare became a local threat in Dallas.

It is a counterintuitive response to trouble, but it seems to be a politically effective one. Running, on the other hand, just delays the trouble and sometimes compounds it.

The Republican assault on Democrats in this year’s elections was encapsulated in the question Greg Abbott asked Wendy Davis during their first debate, about whether she regretted casting a vote for President Obama[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/o/barack_obama/index.html?inline=nyt-per]. She looked like someone had just found a Ted Cruz yard sign in the trunk of her car. That kind of embarrassed reaction affirms the attack: Discomfort, it turns out, is not a good defense.

She had come up with an answer in time for a forum the next day, but she missed the opportunity in that televised appearance to look like the candidate in charge. Reactions leave strong impressions: Is this person reacting to circumstances or changing them? The governor surprised everyone in 2007, issuing an executive order requiring vaccinations of preteen girls in Texas to avoid human papillomavirus, or H.P.V., a sexually transmitted virus that can lead to cervical cancer.

Social conservatives recoiled, as you might expect after reading a sentence that includes the words “preteen” and “sexually transmitted.”

Faced with a strong negative reaction — partly from those conservatives and partly from critics in both political parties who noted that only one company offered the vaccine in question and was represented by Mr. Perry’s former chief of staff — the governor dug in. He defended the order as one that would protect life. He pulled it down and, as he moved into place for a run for president, said he had made a mistake.

Not the mistake you might have thought, though: He said he should have asked legislators to pass a law instead of issuing an executive order that surprised everyone. He did not say he was wrong about the medicine.

Mr. Jenkins, the top elected official in Dallas County, last summer offered the county’s help in housing unaccompanied minors from Mexico and Central America who were pouring across the southern border. It is a Democratic county and this is an election year, but nobody with a pollster thought that was a great strategic move. And when Ebola came to Dallas County, there was Mr. Jenkins, on the evening news, visiting an apartment where Thomas Eric Duncan had stayed before the disease killed him.

Mr. Jenkins was trying to reassure skittish Dallasites, and it did not seem to affect him in November, when 54.5 percent of voters supported his re-election bid.

Ms. Davis got a smaller percentage of the vote than any Democrat in a Texas governor’s race since George W. Bush was the Republican Party[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/r/republican_party/index.html?inline=nyt-org]’s nominee. That one debate question was not what sank the campaign, but it was an example of what went wrong. Outsiders trying to knock off the reigning party are supposed to be running an offense — not a defense.

Mr. Perry is putting together another run for president, and says he will make a decision in a few months about whether to run. For now, he is talking to hundreds of potential donors and supporters, lining things up and running without running away. He tells them that “America is a place that believes in second chances.”

Maybe. It has worked for him so far.

Ross Ramsey, the executive editor of The Texas Tribune, writes a column for The Tribune.

rramsey@texastribune.org

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141214eace0008d


World; Africa
An Ebola Orphan’s Plea in Africa: ‘Do You Want Me?’
By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN
1639 words
14 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
PORT LOKO, Sierra Leone — Sweetie Sweetie had no choice.

Her father had just died of Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier]. So had her sister. Her mother was vomiting blood and fading fast.

When the ambulance arrived and her mother climbed in, Sweetie Sweetie climbed in, too. Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] had been like a pox on her entire house, and even though the young girl looked fine, with no symptoms, nobody in her village, even relatives, wanted to take her. With nowhere else to go, she followed her mother all the way into the red zone of an Ebola clinic and spent more than two weeks in a biohazard area where the only other healthy people were wearing moon suits.

As her mother grew sicker, Sweetie Sweetie urged her to take her pills. She tried to feed her. She washed her mother’s soiled clothes, not especially well, but nurses said they were moved by the effort. After all, they think Sweetie Sweetie is only 4. Health care workers did not even know her real name, which is why they called her Sweetie Sweetie.

After her mother died, the young girl stood outside the clinic’s gates looking around with enormous brown eyes. There was no one to pick her up. She was put on the back of a motorbike and taken to a group home, whose bare, dim hallways she now wanders alone. Social workers are trying to find someone to adopt her, and Sweetie Sweetie seems to know she is up for grabs.

On a recent day she asked a visitor: “Do you want me?”

Ebola has been wretched for children. More than 3,500 have been infected and at least 1,200 have died, United Nations officials estimate. Sierra Leone[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/sierraleone/index.html?inline=nyt-geo], Liberia[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/liberia/index.html?inline=nyt-geo] and Guinea[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/guinea/index.html?inline=nyt-geo], the most-afflicted countries, have shut down schools in an attempt to check the virus, and legions of young people are now being drafted into hard labor by their impoverished parents. Little boys who should be sitting in a classroom are breaking rocks by the side of the road; little girls struggle under gigantic loads of bananas on their heads. This was always true to some degree, but social workers say there are more children, especially teenagers, on the streets than ever before, which could lead to an increase in crime and adolescent pregnancies. When the schools do reopen, there will probably be many vacant seats.

But the worst off, by far, are the Ebola orphans. The United Nations Children’s Fund, or Unicef, says that across the region there may be 10,000 of them. Many are stigmatized and shunned by their own communities.

“If there’s an earthquake or a war, and you lose a mother or a father, an aunt will take care of you,” said Roeland Monasch, head of Unicef’s office in Sierra Leone. “But this is different. These children aren’t being taken in by extended family. This isn’t like the AIDS orphans.”

People in hard-hit Ebola areas see children as mini time bombs. They do not wash their hands very often, they constantly touch people, they break all the Ebola rules. Something as simple as changing a diaper becomes a serious risk because the virus is spread through bodily fluids.

“Younger children are believed to be more contagious,” Mr. Monasch said.

Even if that is not true, the stigma remains, and many families have been reluctant to absorb children from Ebola-stricken households because of worries that those children might sicken their own.

Sierra Leone, which now has more cases of Ebola than anywhere else[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/28/world/africa/despite-aid-push-ebola-is-raging-in-sierra-leone.html], was already a profoundly difficult place for a child. Nine out of 10 girls undergo genital cutting[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/health/diseasesconditionsandhealthtopics/femalegenitalmutilation/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier], one of the highest rates in the world, and during the civil war in the 1990s, thousands of boys fought as child soldiers. Today, armies of young men with arms or legs cut off, gruesome reminders of the war, beg for the equivalent of pennies in the market.

Literacy is low, child mortality high. Nearly a fifth of children do not make it to 5. Child advocates say that rate is likely to increase because of reductions in immunizations and all the Ebola deaths.

It is a miracle that Sweetie Sweetie even survived. She slept in a bed next to her sick mother in a crowded isolation unit with people dying all around her from a deadly, contagious pathogen. She was never given a protective suit — health workers said that was not the protocol, and there were none even close to her size.

She made her bed every morning and tried to keep her mother’s spirits up — her unflagging attention was why the health workers started calling her Sweetie Sweetie. The area she comes from, a village near Port Loko[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/14/opinion/ebola-and-the-lost-children-of-sierra-leone.html], an old river town east of the capital, Freetown, has been ravaged by Ebola. But so far, Sweetie Sweetie has not shown any symptoms.

Social workers have been trying to piece together her story, but her mother entered the clinic in bad shape and was delirious, making it difficult to ascertain all the facts. Sweetie Sweetie does not talk much either. But from what was gleaned from her and snatches of conversation with her mother, the social workers believe she is about 4 years old, her father was a medicine man and her real name might be Mbalu Kamara, though the lead social worker handling her case was quick to add that all that remains “unconfirmed.”

No relatives seem to be looking for her.

The only family member social workers have been able to find was a man they described as an uncle. They said he was an alcoholic and not fit to raise her.

For now, she continues to live in a group home with nine other children, some who have lost their parents, others who have simply been lost in the maze of isolation centers and Ebola clinics — sometimes the little plastic bracelets with a child’s name on it fall off, sometimes records disappear.

None of the other children in the group home looked especially healthy — twice a day their temperatures are taken to make sure they are not coming down with Ebola. One infant was sucking on an empty box of milk, clearly hungry. Another little boy kept shielding his eyes, even though he was sitting in the shade. He had survived Ebola but his eyes still hurt. The house smelled like dried fish.

The children spend a lot of time sitting in plastic chairs. Occasionally they play a game like Simon Says. “Watch this,” one of the social workers said. He waved over Sweetie Sweetie, who appeared in front of him in a stained frock. “Ebola says,” he announced. Sweetie Sweetie quietly answered: “Don’t touch.”

The person most interested in adopting Sweetie Sweetie is a young health care worker who treated her mother and said the mother’s dying wish was for him to look after the little girl.

His name is Usman Koroma, and when he was tracked down at a rundown teachers’ college in Port Loko and asked if he knew a girl known as Sweetie Sweetie, the first thing he said was: “She’s mine.”

He explained, in what seemed an eager but heartfelt way, how he had fed her extra portions of rice, oranges, soup and cassava porridge in the clinic, to boost her immunity.

“I loved the child,” he said.

Musa Conteh, a government social services officer who has been helping with Sweetie Sweetie’s case, was suspicious at first.

“When this girl was discharged,” Mr. Conteh said, “there were a lot of guys standing around, saying they wanted to take her, because look at her, she’s nice.”

When asked what he meant by that, Mr. Conteh dropped his voice close to a whisper.

“This is a fluid time,” he said. “You never know.” He said that the authorities had to be on guard for any signs of strangers adopting children for the purposes of trafficking.

But the more he listened to the young health care worker, the more Mr. Conteh seemed reassured. “We will keep investigating,” Mr. Conteh said. “But this man is educated. He can give her a new life.”

When asked when he might make a decision about Sweetie Sweetie, Mr. Conteh said he did not know. There were dozens of cases like this in his district, he said. Each day, the numbers grew.

Sweetie Sweetie is in a temporary group home for children who have lost parents to Ebola. The home, in Port Loko, Sierra Leone, is sponsored by ChildFund International[https://www.childfund.org/], a private aid agency. For donors, the contact is Sheku Gbla, supervisor of the group home (email: sgbla@sierraleone.childfund.org)[mailto:sgbla@sierraleone.childfund.org]. The telephone number is +232-76-71-35-71. Queries may also be sent to questions@ChildFund.org[mailto:questions@ChildFund.org]. Unicef is also supporting Ebola orphans. For more on its program, see www.supportunicef.org.[http://www.unicef.usa.org/]

Daniel Berehulak and Jaime Yaya Berry contributed reporting.

* How to Help Sweetie Sweetie[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/world/africa/how-to-help-sweetie-sweetie.html]

Sweetie Sweetie, center, with other Ebola orphans at a group home in Sierra Leone. She is seen by neighbors as a potential carrier. | Daniel Berehulak for The New York Times | Sweetie Sweetie gathered her lunch to take back to her room.  The group home is sponsored by ChildFund International. Details of its work and how to help can be found at childfund.org. | Daniel Berehulak for The New York Times | The girl, who health workers believe is about four years old, continues to be monitored for symptoms of Ebola. | Daniel Berehulak for The New York Times | Her unflagging attention to her dying mother was why the health care workers started calling her Sweetie Sweetie. | Daniel Berehulak for The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141214eace000rt


U.S.
Senate Passes $1.1 Trillion Spending Bill, Joining House
By ASHLEY PARKER and ROBERT PEAR
895 words
14 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
WASHINGTON — After moments of high drama, dry process and acrimony, the Senate passed a sweeping $1.1 trillion spending package Saturday night, abruptly ending several days of chaotic legislative maneuvers and clearing the bill for President Obama to sign.

The legislation, which will fund most of the government through the fiscal year that ends in September, passed in a bipartisan vote, 56 to 40 — a turbulent, fitting coda for a governing body that has often failed to govern.

The vote concluded a long day of brinkmanship, spurred by a legislative challenge to Mr. Obama’s executive action on immigration by Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, who forced the Senate into a weekend session. By the end of the day, Mr. Cruz found himself isolated even from members of his own party.

“I don’t see what we’re achieving here,” Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, said of Mr. Cruz’s strategy.

Throughout the day, grim and grumpy lawmakers — many of whom had been forced to cancel holiday plans — trudged to the Capitol to cast a monotonous series of more than two dozen procedural votes. (At one point, Democrats wheeled a piano into a spare room off the Senate floor, where they sang carols including, perhaps optimistically, “I’ll Be Home for Christmas.”)

The turmoil and infighting offered a glimpse into the dynamic between the two parties as well as the tensions among Republicans that are likely to erupt after they take control of the Senate in January.

In addition to funding core domestic government operations, the bill provides money for more military operations abroad and for combatting the Ebola outbreak in West Africa.

Mr. Cruz and Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, held up the spending bill to emphasize their objections to Mr. Obama’s executive action, which will allow as many 5 million undocumented immigrants to remain in the country.

Mr. Cruz ultimately failed to stop the spending bill, which will fund the Department of Homeland Security — the agency primarily responsible for carrying out the president’s immigration directive — through February.

Mr. Cruz also inadvertently enabled the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, to offer a counterprocedural move that will advance two dozen nominations, including several contentious ones that would otherwise have faced a more difficult confirmation process.

“It will have the end result of causing nominees who I think are not well qualified to be confirmed, so I don’t understand the approach that he is taking,” said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine. And I think it’s very unfortunate and counterproductive.”

Mr. Cruz did manage to secure a vote on a point of order raising constitutional concerns about the president’s authority to defer deportations for undocumented immigrants. But the Senate rejected his objection.

Senators spent most of Saturday plowing through votes on presidential nominees — a process known as a vote-o-rama.

The list of nominations included Antony J. Blinken as deputy secretary of state, the department’s No. 2 post; Carolyn W. Colvin to lead the Social Security Administration; Dr. Vivek H. Murthy as surgeon general; and Sarah R. Saldaña to head Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The Senate is also expected to vote on more than a dozen judicial and other nominees.

The spending bill at least triples federal limits on individual contributions to national political parties and relaxes restrictions on big banks’ trading of certain risky financial instruments — provisions that infuriated liberal Democrats.

The legislation provides $64 billion for military campaigns in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria and other countries. It allows certain multi-employer pension plans to shore up their finances by cutting retirees’ benefits. And it reduces the budget for the Environmental Protection Agency, the Internal Revenue Service and other agencies out of favor with Republicans. But Democrats staved off deep cuts to many of their favorite health and education programs.

Mr. Cruz’s last-minute ploy surprised even Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, who had left the Capitol on Friday evening telling reporters that he would see them Monday. The maneuver seems likely to further elevate Mr. Cruz’s popularity and credibility among the conservative base, boosting excitement for him should he seek his party’s presidential nomination in 2016.

But only Democrats seemed able to wrest a modicum of enjoyment from the day’s proceedings.

“We will get these confirmations done,” Mr. Cardin said, “and we may not have gotten them done otherwise.”

As Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Senate Republican, struggled to explain to a group of reporters just what Mr. Cruz had hoped to achieve, Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey, loped by and clapped him on the shoulder.

“Let me know if you need backup,” Mr. Booker said with a grin.

* G.O.P. Angst Over 2016 Led to Provision on Funding[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/us/politics/gop-angst-over-2016-convention-led-to-funding-provision.html]

* From Contribution Limits to the Sage Grouse: What Is in the Spending Bill?[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/13/us/key-points-from-the-spending-bill.html]

* House Narrowly Passes Bill to Avoid Shutdown; $1.1 Trillion in Spending [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/12/us/congress-spending-bill.html]

* Spending Bill Hits Snags, but Congress Thinks It Can Avoid Shutdown[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/11/us/trillion-dollar-spending-pact-angers-campaign-finance-watchdogs.html]

* Congressional Leaders Reach Deal on Spending[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/10/us/politics/congressional-leaders-reach-deal-on-spending.html]

* Dinner Party Political Primer[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/13/opinion/gail-collins-dinner-party-political-primer.html]

Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, right center, forced a delay on a vote in the Senate on Friday night. | Stephen Crowley/The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141213eace005bp


Foreign Desk; SECT
How to Help Sweetie Sweetie
JEFFREY GETTLEMAN
95 words
14 December 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
The New York Times on the Web
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Sweetie Sweetie is in a temporary group home for children who have lost parents to Ebola. The home, in Port Loko, Sierra Leone, is sponsored by ChildFund International, a private aid agency. For donors, the contact is Sheku Gbla, supervisor of the group home (email: sgbla@sierraleone.childfund.org). The telephone number is +232-76-71-35-71. Queries may also be sent to questions@ChildFund.org. Unicef is also supporting Ebola orphans. For more on its program, see www.supportunicef.org[http://www.supportunicef.org].

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141214eace00068


Book Review Desk; SECTBR
Best Sellers: Health: Sunday, December 14th 2014
222 words
14 December 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the December 14, 2014 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending November 29, 2014. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (†) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers[http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers].

  Weeks
                              Best Sellers: Health

This Last On
Week Week List
  
1         3
THE HOT ZONE, by Richard Preston. (Anchor) The discovery of the Ebola virus, and the efforts to keep it from spreading; first published in 1994.

2  1
CHASING DAYLIGHT, by Eugene O'Kelly with Andrew Postman. (McGraw-Hill) A memoir written by the former KPMG chief executive between his diagnosis with brain cancer and his death three and a half months later.

3  1
SOUL MIND BODY SCIENCE SYSTEM, by Zhi Gang Sha and Rulin Xiu. (BenBella) The "grand unification" theory of miraculous healing through multiple disciplines.

4  1
EBOLA, by David Quammen. (Norton) The natural and human history of the deadly virus.

5  1
HEALING BACK PAIN, by John E. Sarno. (Grand Central) The mind-body connection as remedy, without drugs surgery or exercise.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141215eace0008z


Book Review Desk; SECTBR
Best Sellers: Science Times: Sunday, December 14th 2014
361 words
14 December 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the December 14, 2014 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending November 29, 2014. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (†) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers[http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers].

  Weeks
                              Best Sellers: Science Times

This Last On
Week Week List
  
1    1    2
BEING MORTAL, by Atul Gawande. (Metropolitan/ Holt) The surgeon and New Yorker writer considers how doctors fail patients at the end of life, and how they can do better.

2 4 3
WHAT IF?, by Randall Munroe. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt) Scientific (but often humorous) answers to hypothetical questions, based in part on the author’s website, xkcd.com.

3 2 2
THE INNOVATORS, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon & Schuster) Studies of the people who created computers and the Internet, beginning in the 1840s.

4 6 21
QUIET, by Susan Cain. (Crown) Introverts -- one-third of the population -- are undervalued in American society.

5  1
UNDENIABLE, by Bill Nye. (St. Martin's) The “Science Guy” explains how evolution shapes our lives.

6 8 20
THINKING, FAST AND SLOW, by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus and Giroux) The winner of a Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices in business and personal life and when we can and cannot trust our intuitions.

7 10 19
THE POWER OF HABIT, by Charles Duhigg. (Random House) An examination of the science behind habits, how we form them and break them.

8  1
ONE NATION UNDER TAUGHT, by Vince M. Bertram. (Beaufort Books) How to help American students who are falling behind in science, technology, engineering and math education

9  1
THE SCIENCE OF INTERSTELLAR, by Kip Thorne. (Norton) A physicist explains the science behind the movie.

10 3 3
THE HOT ZONE, by Richard Preston. (Anchor) The discovery of the Ebola virus, and the efforts to keep it from spreading; first published in 1994.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141215eace0009a


A
AN EBOLA ORPHAN'S PLEA: 'DO YOU WANT ME?'
By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN
78 words
14 December 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
1
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
United Nations Children's Fund says there may be 10,000 orphans who have lost parents to Ebola virus in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea, many of whom are stigmatized or shunned by their own communities; extended families have been reluctant to absorb children from Ebola-stricken households because of worries that these children may be carriers and might sicken their own. Photos (M)

Combination

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141217eace0001m


World; Africa
Liberian Court Rejects Petition to Delay Elections Over Ebola
By CLAIR MacDOUGALL
388 words
14 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
MONROVIA, Liberia — Liberia [http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/liberia/index.html?inline=nyt-geo]’s Supreme Court on Saturday said it would not halt Senate elections scheduled for Tuesday, rejecting a petition calling for the vote to be delayed because of the Ebola [http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] crisis.

The court said its role was not to make decisions on political affairs. “It is not our place to decide whether it is appropriate to conduct elections at this time or any other time,” said Chief Justice Francis S. Kporkpor.

The court had suspended campaigning for almost two weeks while it considered petitions that sought to suspend voting until the Ebola outbreak was brought under control. The petitioners said they feared that the virus could be spread as people campaigned and turned out to vote in large numbers.

Two of the five justices dissented, saying the government was not prepared to conduct the elections safely. They also said that holding elections in the current climate violated civil and political rights.

“The National Elections Commission demonstrated callous disregard for the health and welfare of the Liberian people,” said Justice Philip A. Z. Banks, who did not sign the judgment.

The chairman of the National Elections Commission, Jerome Korkoya, said in an interview before the ruling that he feared Liberia would face a constitutional crisis if elections did not go ahead and that “the government would be crippled.”

President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf echoed that sentiment in another interview.

The minister of justice, Benedict F. Sannoh, accused the petitioners — prominent citizens, lawyers and members of opposition parties — of trying to force the creation of an interim government.

The court did not confirm that elections would necessarily take place on Dec. 16, suggesting that the elections might still be held at a later date.

Mr. Korkoya said he planned to meet with other members of the Elections Commission and representatives of political parties on Sunday to discuss a potential new date for elections.

Mrs. Sirleaf recently ordered a ban on campaigning in the capital, Monrovia, after the leading opposition party staged rallies and the streets filled with supporters. Critics have accused the president of trying to help the Senate campaign of her son, Robert Sirleaf. He is running to represent Montserrado County against a former soccer star and presidential aspirant, George Manneh Weah.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141214eace000gp


N.Y. / Region
At Rikers, a Roadblock to Reform
By MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ and MICHAEL WINERIP
5242 words
15 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
With brutality by guards at the Rikers Island[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/r/rikers_island_prison_complex/index.html?inline=nyt-org] jail complex rising at an alarming rate, the chief investigator for the New York City Correction Department stood before a roomful of senior officers and union leaders in the summer of 2012 and outlined her plans to crack down on abuse and send more cases to prosecutors.

The presentation infuriated one man in particular, Norman Seabrook, the powerful president of the Correction Officers’ Benevolent Association, who believed the incidents should be handled internally. For the next two years he did everything in his power to get rid of the investigator, Florence Finkle. He helped scuttle some of her investigations, got one of her top people transferred, called for her resignation and denounced her on his weekly radio show.

In August, he finally got his wish: Ms. Finkle was forced out, replaced by a former senior Police Department official — a childhood friend of Mr. Seabrook’s.

Over his two decades as president of the union, Mr. Seabrook has come to exert extraordinary control over the Correction Department, consulting with commissioners on key appointments, forging alliances with high-ranking uniformed correction leaders and, more recently, speaking regularly with Mayor Bill de Blasio about department policy. His influence has paid enormous dividends for his members, but it has also fed a culture of violence and corruption at Rikers, an investigation by The New York Times found.

The investigation involved scores of interviews, with former correction commissioners, former senior City Hall aides, and current and former department officials, and reviews of internal emails and other documents, as well as several lengthy interviews with Mr. Seabrook himself. What emerged was a portrait of a labor leader who wields remarkable power through a combination of political savvy and intimidation.

“I came to think that my wardens believed Norman was more important to their career than I was,” said Martin F. Horn, who served as commissioner from 2003 to 2009.

Mr. Seabrook’s power has cut two ways.

Under his leadership, correction officers, long overlooked among the city’s uniformed services, have seen large gains in salary and pension benefits, reaching parity with firefighters and police officers. Like Mr. Seabrook, the overwhelming majority of his members are black. They have risen to dominate the top ranks of the department, making it far more diverse than the Police and Fire Departments, where most of the leadership is white.

But current and former city officials repeatedly described Mr. Seabrook as the biggest obstacle to efforts to curb brutality and malfeasance at Rikers. He has vigorously resisted stiffer penalties for the use of excessive force by guards and has fought stronger screening measures designed to stop correction officers from smuggling weapons and drugs into the jails. Time and again, Mr. Seabrook has shielded his members from serious punishment when investigators like Ms. Finkle have tried to go after them.

Last year, when prosecutors charged 10 officers in a beating that fractured an inmate’s nose and eye sockets, Mr. Seabrook vigorously defended them.

“Here we have correction officers paraded into court for merely defending themselves,” he said. “The officers did everything that they were supposed to do.”

Much of Mr. Seabrook’s influence within the department comes from a fear of what he might do to those who cross him. The Times spoke with about a dozen current and former senior city officials, both inside and outside the department, who have dealt with him regularly over the years and were privately critical of him. But almost no one would be quoted discussing Mr. Seabrook, citing concerns that he could sabotage their careers. Some also expressed fears about their safety while visiting Rikers, worrying that a correction officer might look the other way if an inmate suddenly got violent.

“He’s a bully,” said Daniel Dromm, a city councilman who has openly clashed with Mr. Seabrook on several occasions. “They’re afraid of him.”

Mr. Seabrook is a volatile personality. He has both dined with mayors and shouted in their faces. One minute he can be heard exclaiming, “God is good,” the next unleashing a stream of vulgarities. He once arrived at the home of a senior city official, during contract negotiations, with a pistol strapped to his hip. On another occasion, he had one of his correction officers dress as a cartoon character to mock a commissioner who was leading a tour of Rikers.

Perhaps the most naked display of Mr. Seabrook’s power came on Nov. 18, 2013, when a Rikers inmate, Dapree Peterson, was scheduled to testify against two correction officers in a brutality case. Mr. Seabrook essentially shut down the city’s courts by sidelining the buses[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/21/nyregion/bus-stoppage-said-to-target-rikers-inmate.html] that ferry inmates to and from court, interviews and documents show. As a result, hundreds of inmates missed court dates, including Mr. Peterson, whose beating had been investigated and referred for prosecution by Ms. Finkle.

During much of Mr. Seabrook’s career, Rikers has been a low priority for city officials. But disturbing revelations about conditions in the jails have focused new attention on the problems there, as well as on Mr. Seabrook’s influence.

In July, The Times published an investigation[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/14/nyregion/rikers-study-finds-prisoners-injured-by-employees.html] detailing 129 cases of inmates who had been seriously injured during encounters with correction officers over an 11-month span last year. Less than a month later, the United States attorney in Manhattan, Preet Bharara, threatened to sue the city after releasing a report that accused the Correction Department of failing to protect adolescent inmates from excessive force by guards.

Mr. de Blasio vowed last month[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/21/nyregion/rikers-needs-culture-change-mayor-de-blasio-says.html] to overhaul the department, which he called the city’s most troubled agency, and to bring an end to the violence at Rikers. He has entrusted the task to his handpicked correction commissioner, Joseph Ponte, who has a national reputation as a reformer. Their single biggest challenge may well be reining in Mr. Seabrook, who has outmaneuvered a long line of mayors and commissioners over the years.

Staunch Adversary Is Ousted

During her four years as the deputy commissioner for investigation, Ms. Finkle was an awkward fit at the Correction Department. In part, it was because her position, investigating wrongdoing, put her at odds with the uniformed staff. But it was also because of her background and personality.

In a heavily minority organization that is largely blue collar and defined by its macho culture, Ms. Finkle is white, a graduate of an elite college and openly gay. She also had little patience for the niceties needed to negotiate the department’s politics.

When she refused to fall in line with Mr. Seabrook, he accused her of having it in for his members. “Flo Finkle had her own agenda,” he said in an interview. “She just wanted to kill people.”

Before she joined the department in 2010, Ms. Finkle had spent roughly two decades investigating misconduct by the police, including serving as executive director of the Civilian Complaint Review Board, which provides oversight for the Police Department. While at the Manhattan district attorney’s office in the 1990s, she sent three officers from the 30th Precinct in Harlem to prison as a prosecutor in what became known as the Dirty Thirty case, one of the biggest police corruption investigations in recent history.

Before Ms. Finkle’s arrival, brutality cases at Rikers had usually been handled as internal disciplinary matters. But at the June 2012 meeting, which she conducted with a member of the city’s Department of Investigation, Ms. Finkle announced a major shift, warning that more officers who brutalized inmates would face criminal prosecution, according to two former investigators and a midlevel uniformed officer. And, she said, even cases that involved lying to investigators or falsifying incident reports would be punished as felonies, and could land officers in prison.

She initiated a policy to immediately suspend without pay officers who had been caught on video appearing to use excessive force. Twenty officers were suspended under this policy in the fiscal year that ended June 30. During her time at the department, 22 officers she had referred for prosecution were criminally charged.

Despite this track record, the report by the United States attorney’s office last summer said that much more needed to be done. The report described pervasive brutality by guards against teenagers at Rikers and harshly criticized the investigation division for being slow and ineffective.

What the report left out was the role Mr. Seabrook had played in repeatedly undermining Ms. Finkle’s work.

In August 2012, for example, Ms. Finkle’s investigators began videotaping the deposition of a correction officer in a brutality case involving an inmate whose skull had been fractured. One of Mr. Seabrook’s union delegates, claiming that the recording of such interviews was improper, cut off the questioning and the interview was never completed, according to several former investigators.

Hours later, Mr. Seabrook went on his radio show and castigated Ms. Finkle for “beating correction officers over the head, savagely trying to take their jobs.”

The next month, according to two former city officials, investigators from Ms. Finkle’s office, pursuing a tip that an officer was illegally carrying a cellphone into the jail, stopped and searched the woman. Nothing was found, but when Mr. Seabrook learned about the incident, he complained to the commissioner’s office. Shortly after, the captain who had overseen the search, Timothy Kozak, was transferred out of the investigation division, a move that several of his former colleagues described as a serious blow to the unit’s morale.

Mr. Seabrook said that he had just been doing his job. “Every single day I respond to labor management issues throughout the department to protect the rights of my members.”

After complaints from Mr. Seabrook, the commissioner at the time, Dora B. Schriro, told Ms. Finkle that from then on, before referring a case for prosecution, it had to be cleared with Ms. Schriro, according to several former investigators.

At one point, Mr. Seabrook, along with two members of his union board, made an unscheduled visit to Ms. Finkle’s office. Over the next 15 minutes, according to someone who was there, he accused her of unfairly suspending his officers as well as running a “stop-and-frisk[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/s/stop_and_frisk/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] program” against them, and warned that he would be coming after her.

Mr. Seabrook said in an interview that he remembered going to Ms. Finkle’s office, but could not recall her being there.

Last summer, on the evening of Aug. 21, an email, obtained by The Times, was sent to several Correction Department staff members announcing that Michael Blake, a former senior official with the Police Department, had been hired to work in the investigation division.

No one had told Ms. Finkle. The next morning, after a meeting with Mr. Ponte, the correction commissioner, she was out of a job and Mr. Blake, a childhood friend of Mr. Seabrook’s, had been named to take over the division.

There were signs that Mr. Blake’s appointment was hurried. The cover letter he submitted to the department was for a completely different job, director of security at the New York Public Library. It was addressed to Iris Weinshall, chief operating officer at the library, according to a copy obtained by The Times.

In his 27 years with the Police Department, Mr. Blake had run two precincts, spent three years overseeing the Queens gang squad and, before he retired in 2013, served as the commander of the department’s counterterrorism division, overseeing more than 150 officers.

But unlike Ms. Finkle and her predecessor, Richard R. White, who had spent 12 years at the Manhattan district attorney’s office, Mr. Blake had never been a prosecutor. His only experience investigating officer misconduct came during a stint that lasted less than two years when he was a sergeant in the Patrol Services Bureau two decades ago.

Mr. Blake declined to comment on his relationship with Mr. Seabrook.

For his part, Mr. Seabrook said in an interview that he and Mr. Blake had been neighborhood buddies when they were teenagers, partying and playing ball together. Over the years, however, they had seen each other only from time to time, Mr. Seabrook said.

As it turns out, the relationship was much more complicated than that. Mr. Blake’s brother, Allen, was once so close with Mr. Seabrook that he had been given a position on the union’s executive board. Then, in 2010, Allen Blake was charged with defrauding the union’s insurance company and had a falling-out with Mr. Seabrook. Still, the union head said there were no lingering hard feelings over the episode.

Mr. Seabrook said he had not been consulted about Michael Blake’s appointment but expressed approval. “Mike’s a smart man,” Mr. Seabrook said. “He’s going to do well.”

Mr. Ponte said in an interview that he was not aware of Mr. Seabrook’s connection to Mr. Blake, but that he was “very impressed with his credentials.” He added that he wanted “somebody I was sure had loyalty to me and this organization.”

Gaining, and Wielding, Power

Mr. Seabrook first made headlines in 1993 when he and a group of nearly 200 insurgent correction officers blocked the lone bridge that connects Rikers to the mainland in Queens to protest the handling of contract negotiations by the union’s leadership at the time.

Two years later, he won the race to become union president and has since been re-elected four times by large margins.

He grew up poor in the Bronx, one of eight children. As a teenager, he said, he was sent to an upstate New York juvenile center for “bad boys.” A worker there took him under her wing, they grew close and eventually he married her daughter. He said that although his Italian-American father-in-law had been skeptical of the marriage at first, his mother-in-law believed in him. “When I told her I wanted to be a correction officer, she was so happy and so was my father-in-law,” he recalled. “I think that was the turning point.” His father-in-law said to him, “ ‘You’re going to be able to provide for my daughter.’ ”

An early mentor was Richard J. Koehler, the correction commissioner when Mr. Seabrook was starting out in the department, which he joined in 1985. Mr. Koehler’s law firm was paid a $555,000 retainer in 2012 by the union for, among other things, defending officers in disciplinary matters, according to the union’s most recent tax return.

As president, Mr. Seabrook has been skilled at building alliances with powerful politicians, including former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and former Gov. George E. Pataki, which has served his membership well.

With Mr. Pataki’s help, he secured a supplemental bonus for his members’ pension plan — getting them as much as an extra $12,000 annually — despite fierce opposition from Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.

He has also created a foundation for the widows and children of correction officers.

For all this, Mr. Seabrook, 54, pays himself and his executive board well. His total annual compensation, combining his city-paid correction officer’s salary and a union stipend, is about $300,000, according to the union’s latest federal tax return. In contrast, Patrick J. Lynch, president of the Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association, which is six times the size of Mr. Seabrook’s union, earns nearly $100,000 less.

According to the tax returns, the union contributed about $500,000 to political campaigns during the 2012 election cycle, with much of it going toward state legislative races.

This has opened doors in Albany. A bill that Mr. Seabrook helped craft this year to move the jurisdiction of Rikers criminal cases from the district attorney’s office in the Bronx to the one in Queens passed both houses of the Legislature with almost no opposition. (To become law, the bill must still be signed by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo.)

Though prosecutions of correction officers are rare, Mr. Seabrook had accused the Bronx district attorney, Robert T. Johnson, of being too aggressive with his members, while going easy on inmate violence. He has said he thinks his members will be treated more fairly in Queens.

Early in his tenure as union president, Mr. Seabrook faced allegations of sexual harassment by several women with whom he had worked.

One union administrator, Sharon Tonge, accused him in a lawsuit of firing her after she refused his sexual advances, which he denied. In her complaint, Ms. Tonge said that Mr. Seabrook’s behavior was often erratic. He once dismissed the entire clerical staff on a Friday, the complaint said, only to reinstate the workers on Monday. The suit claimed that he had used surveillance cameras to monitor employees, “calling individuals on the telephones at their desks to advise them he had observed them in various activities.”

The case was settled in 2001 under terms that were confidential.

Standing well over six feet tall, Mr. Seabrook favors finely cut suits with silk pocket squares and often walks around with an unlit cigar. Those who have dealt with him over the years say he can quickly shift from charming and benevolent to angry and cold when doing so fits his needs. His behavior can also be surprising. Last summer, while at a funeral for a retired correction officer, he received a text telling him that the family dog had died. He cut his eulogy short, apologized and hurried home to comfort his family.

He has earned intense loyalty from his 9,000 members. On the day new recruits walk into the department’s training academy in Middle Village, Queens, he is there to greet them, and he is there again on the day they graduate.

In October, in an hourlong presentation at the academy, Mr. Seabrook did everything from helping new recruits set up car pools to acting out the role of an abusive inmate in several impromptu skits. He gave them all his cellphone number.

The same manic energy he puts into building loyalty among his membership can go into tormenting his adversaries.

In November 2012, Ms. Schriro, then the commissioner, was leading several dozen women onto Rikers Island for a tour. Mr. Seabrook dispatched one of his officers dressed as Dora the Explorer, the children’s cartoon character, to dance on the side of the road, stalling the commissioner’s bus as drivers stopped to gawk, backing up traffic for miles, according to several officials who were there. The delay was expensive, requiring the city to pay overtime when officers could not get onto the island for a shift change.

In recent months he has shown up twice during tours of the jails, surprising health department officials and City Council members who were there to investigate the mistreatment of inmates. Each time he got into angry shouting matches — with Mr. Dromm, the councilman, and Mary T. Bassett, the health commissioner, according to several officials who were there. Notably, the correction commissioner, Mr. Ponte, stood quietly by.

When asked about Mr. Seabrook’s outbursts, Mr. Ponte said, “The union has a right to say things in the representation of their work force.”

Once, in the midst of contract negotiations with the city during Mr. Bloomberg’s first term, Mr. Seabrook made a surprise Saturday night visit to the home of a deputy mayor, Peter J. Madonia. He showed up wearing a powder blue jumpsuit, Mr. Madonia recalled, with one gun strapped to his ankle and another on his hip.

Asked about the incident, Mr. Seabrook said: “I carry a licensed firearm at all times, which I am permitted to do as a peace officer.” Though Mr. Seabrook lectures his members on using restraint when dealing with inmates, he has backed officers in even the most egregious brutality cases.

In 2010, he handed out a prize for assistant deputy warden of the year to Charlton Lemon during the union’s annual fund-raiser, even though at the time Mr. Lemon was the subject of a lawsuit for leading four guards in the severe beating of an inmate that the city eventually settled for $350,000.

“We give our awards to those members of the department who have worked tirelessly to enhance the agency and improve the working conditions for all of us,” Mr. Seabrook said.

Bringing City Courts to a Halt

It had become a fairly routine occurrence over the years during contract negotiations for members of the correction officers union to briefly block the Rikers bridge as part of a job action.

But what happened on Nov. 18, 2013, when no contract negotiations were underway, was markedly different.

On that day, a Rikers inmate, Dapree Peterson, 21, was scheduled to testify against two correction officers who had been accused of assaulting Mr. Peterson and covering it up in an official report. It was precisely the kind of case that Ms. Finkle had vowed to pursue.

But that Monday morning, Mr. Seabrook and members of his executive board drove to Rikers, where officers were preparing 33 buses to ferry inmates between the jail complex and the city’s courthouses. The buses had all been in working order the previous Friday and, in some cases, just hours before, according to affidavits related to the incident later filed with the city. But now they were all too dangerous to drive, Mr. Seabrook and his members claimed.

The bus stoppage[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/21/nyregion/bus-stoppage-said-to-target-rikers-inmate.html] received substantial news coverage when it happened. While it was widely assumed that Mr. Seabrook was behind it, no one was able to establish a direct link. Documents reviewed by The Times, as well as interviews, indicate that he was the one who orchestrated the shutdown.

Mr. Seabrook’s members cited myriad safety problems on the buses, including an expired fire extinguisher, a noisy engine and cracked windows, according to the affidavits.

One correction officer, Harcourt Bullard, wrote that he had been given four buses, one after another, each too dangerous to drive: The first, he wrote, had the check engine light on; the second, a broken hand railing; the third, an inaudible backup signal; the fourth, a cracked window.

“We were then assigned a fifth bus which was blocked in by other malfunctioning buses,” Mr. Bullard wrote in his affidavit. The resulting bus stoppage prevented nearly 750 inmates, including Mr. Peterson, from making it to court that day. Another 49 never got to their medical appointments at Bellevue Hospital Center.

The judge presiding over the two guards’ brutality trial complained that the judicial system had been “held hostage.” The Bloomberg administration eventually sued the union.

In previous years, according to two former top city officials, a simple call to Mr. Seabrook’s cellphone had been sufficient to get him to end a job action.

Not this time. Neither the mayor nor the correction commissioner was able to get the buses moving. Moreover, the highest-ranking uniformed officer responsible for keeping the jails running, Evelyn Mirabal, the chief of department, did not go to the scene to take control, according to legal documents and two former high-ranking correction officials.

Ms. Mirabal, who retired this year, had strong ties to Mr. Seabrook. Not long after the bus stoppage, her son, Daniel Palmieri, was named to the union’s executive board, a position that typically carries a total annual compensation package of more than $150,000.

Asked about her actions that day, Ms. Mirabal said, “The fact is, I was there.” She declined to elaborate.  

It was a captain who told the drivers to muster for roll call.

That did not happen. Edna Wells Handy, the commissioner of the Department of Citywide Administrative Services who oversaw the investigation into the matter, later wrote in her report: “At Mr. Seabrook’s urging, all the listed officers refused to attend.”

Ms. Handy ruled that the 63 officers had violated state labor law and docked each two days’ pay.

In the end, however, no one suffered any consequences. Mr. Seabrook used union funds to reimburse the officers and remains unapologetic: “I told them, ‘Look, if a bus is not operable, not running the way it’s supposed to be running, put in a work order and down the bus.’ That’s what they did.”

Mr. Peterson did eventually testify, but the two officers were exonerated.

Quick to Balk at Reforms

When Mr. de Blasio appointed Mr. Ponte as commissioner last spring, inmate advocates were hopeful. He had worked in jails and prisons for more than 45 years and was known as a reformer.

In Maine, where he had headed the state prison system, he cut the number of prisoners housed in solitary confinement in half, opened a new therapeutic cellblock for the seriously mentally ill and worked closely with inmate advocates.

But even before Mr. Ponte started in New York, Mr. Seabrook called a news conference to attack him. He mocked Mr. Ponte’s philosophy as “hug a thug.”

“We don’t need a reformer; we need law and order,” Mr. Seabrook told reporters at union headquarters in downtown Manhattan. “Welcome to New York City. This is not Maine.”

Mr. Ponte has already committed to several changes that the union would have fought in the past, including a plan to triple the number of video cameras at the jails to cover areas like stairwells and hallways, where beatings have long gone on out of investigators’ view. In September, in the wake of the United States attorney’s office’s report on the mistreatment of adolescent inmates, Mr. Ponte also announced a plan to eliminate the use of solitary confinement for all 16- and 17-year-olds by the end of December, something the union still opposes.

As federal and local authorities have applied intense pressure for changes to be made at Rikers, Mr. Seabrook has toned down his criticism of Mr. Ponte. Even so, the union leader has won some substantial concessions from the city on issues like solitary confinement for the adult population. A major reason Mr. Ponte was able to significantly reduce the solitary population in Maine was that he did not have to contend with a strong union.

In mid-November, at a meeting of the Board of Correction, a city watchdog agency for Rikers, Mr. Ponte laid out a plan that would hold the number of adult solitary confinement beds steady at 719, disappointing inmate advocates

At the meeting, Mr. Seabrook was treated like a dignitary. A member of Mr. Ponte’s security detail escorted him into the packed room and to a seat in the front row that had been saved for him.

Later, after criticizing inmate advocate groups, Mr. Seabrook turned to the commissioner and said, “Joe, I got your back, brother.”

For years, Mr. Seabrook stymied efforts by the Investigation Department and correction commissioners to impose tighter security measures aimed at preventing contraband smuggling by guards, including the use of drug-sniffing dogs and security teams to monitor the jail entrances.

This summer, after several correction officers were arrested for contraband smuggling, Mr. Ponte, Mr. Seabrook and Mark G. Peters, the Investigation Department commissioner, discussed improving security. But instead of substantial changes, Mr. Ponte, urged on by Mr. Seabrook, settled for a few more modest steps, such as the inspection of lunches, according to several high-ranking city officials.

In October, all this backfired on Mr. Ponte. A city investigator, disguised as a guard, successfully smuggled[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/07/nyregion/rikers-island-undercover-investigator-contraband-inquiry.html] large quantities of heroin and marijuana, along with a razor blade, in the pockets of his cargo pants through six different security checkpoints at Rikers.

Only after the embarrassing episode did Mr. Ponte agree to adopt stronger measures.

Improving security has been slow going, Mr. Ponte said, in part because of the need “to make sure the unions understood what needed to be done and the politics.”

It remains to be seen whether Mr. Seabrook will acquiesce to the additional scrutiny of his members. At a recent public forum, he questioned whether the city’s investigators could be trusted. “I don’t know whether or not that this was something that was real or something that’s not,” he said. “So until I see all the facts, it’s not real to me.”

A crucial unanswered question is how the relationship between Mr. Ponte and Mr. Seabrook will play out when it comes to the disciplining of officers. In September, an administrative judge found five officers and a captain guilty of brutally beating an inmate and then lying about it, and recommended — in an unusually forceful decision[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/30/nyregion/in-rare-decision-judge-urges-firing-for-6-rikers-island-officers-who-beat-inmate.html] — that they all be terminated.

More than two months later, Mr. Ponte, who has the final say over whether to uphold the termination, had yet to make a decision.

Despite all of the attention on Rikers, violence by both inmates and correction officers has continued to rise. There were 88 stabbings and slashings by inmates and 752 assaults on uniformed staff members in the 2014 fiscal year, compared with 34 and 500, respectively, four years earlier.

In the first 10 months of this year, officers used physical force against inmates 3,381 times, compared with 2,618 during the same period the year before. Nevertheless, Mr. de Blasio has continued to embrace Mr. Seabrook.

In October, less than an hour before the mayor was to hold a major news conference to announce the city’s first confirmed case of Ebola infection, he made time for a side trip to the Bronx ballroom where Mr. Seabrook was holding the union’s annual charity fund-raiser. The two men stood side by side before more than 700 correction officers and their families and flattered each other. For several minutes, the mayor spoke in praise of Mr. Seabrook.

“Norman is a friend,” Mr. de Blasio said. “Norman has been a great leader in this town. I want to thank him for all he does.”

* In Rare Rebuke for Rikers Officers, Judge Urges Firing of 6 Who Beat Inmate[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/30/nyregion/in-rare-decision-judge-urges-firing-for-6-rikers-island-officers-who-beat-inmate.html]

* U.S. Inquiry Finds a ‘Culture of Violence’ Against Teenage Inmates at Rikers Island[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/05/nyregion/us-attorneys-office-reveals-civil-rights-investigation-at-rikers-island.html]

* Rikers: Where Mental Illness Meets Brutality in Jail[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/14/nyregion/rikers-study-finds-prisoners-injured-by-employees.html]

Norman Seabrook at the union’s offices in Manhattan. His extraordinary influence has paid huge dividends for his members, but has also fed a culture of corruption and violence at the Rikers Island jail complex. | Hiroko Masuike/The New York Times | The Rikers Island jail complex. | Richard Perry/The New York Times | As the agency’s chief investigator, Florence Finkle, left, targeted abuse by jail guards. Mr. Seabrook’s childhood friend Michael Blake, right, replaced her. | Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times; Chang W. Lee/The New York Times | An affidavit detailing a union member’s account of why the buses that ferry prisoners from the Rikers complex to court were idle on the day an inmate was to testify against guards he said had beaten him. | Mr. Seabrook once had a guard dress as a cartoon character to mock Dora B. Schriro, a former correction commissioner. | Michael Appleton for The New York Times | Joseph Ponte, the successor to Ms. Schriro, arrived with a reputation as a reformer. | Chang W. Lee/The New York Times | Mr. Seabrook with Mayor Bill de Blasio at a union charity dinner in October. Mr. de Blasio spoke warmly of Mr. Seabrook at the event. | Christopher Gregory for The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141215eacf000ph


Editorial
Opinion
Cuba’s Economy at a Crossroads
By THE EDITORIAL BOARD
1219 words
15 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
In July 2007, while serving as acting president as his brother underwent medical treatment, Raúl Castro delivered a startling indictment of the Cuban economy when he railed about the inefficiencies of the dairy industry. His description of the onerous and expensive mechanism to get milk from cows to dinner tables was old news to Cubans, who have been subjected for decades to a centrally planned economy that is among the world’s most dysfunctional and anomalous. It soon became clear that Mr. Castro’s unexpected candor that day signaled the start of a transformational era for the island’s economy.

After Fidel Castro ceded power to his brother in 2008, the government initiated reforms that have allowed Cubans to start building livelihoods that are not wholly subject to state control. The pace has been halting, with plenty of backtracking from the government’s old guard, which views further liberalization of the economy as an abdication of the socialist system Fidel Castro made sacrosanct.

The looming end of the Castro era — Raúl Castro, 83, has said[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/25/world/americas/raul-castro-to-step-down-as-cubas-president-in-2018.html] he will step down in 2018 — is unfolding amid a vigorous debate on the future of the country’s economy.

To date, the Obama administration has watched the reforms with skepticism. The White House has eased restrictions on remittances and travel to the island, but it has done relatively little else to pare down the web of sanctions the United States has imposed on Cuba for decades.

President Obama could help expand the role of Cuba’s small but growing entrepreneurial class by relaxing sanctions through executive authority and working with the growing number of lawmakers who want to expand business with Cuba. The White House could start that process by removing Cuba from the State Department list of countries that sponsor terrorist organizations and making it easier for Americans to provide start up-capital for independent small businesses. Doing that would empower Cuban-Americans to play a more robust role in the island’s economic transformation. More significantly, it would gradually erode the Cuban government’s ability to blame Washington for the shortcomings of an economy that is failing its citizens largely as a result of its own policies.

••

Before Fidel Castro came to power in 1959, Cuba’s economy was heavily reliant on the United States, which bought the bulk of its main export, sugar. American tourists flocked to the island, lured by its proximity, tropical weather and raucous night life.

After the overthrow of Fulgencio Batista, an authoritarian leader who had protected American commercial interests on the island, Fidel Castro’s government asserted control over virtually every segment of the economy. It seized land and assets from American companies and vowed to guarantee all citizens housing, health care and education. Communism brought an ever more anemic and backward economy, one propped up largely by Moscow. But after the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, so did Cuba’s economy.

Cubans euphemistically call the stark deprivation of the 1990s the “special period,” a time when the Cuban government was forced to allow in some foreign investment and authorize limited private-sector employment. In 1999, Havana found a new benefactor in the newly elected president of Venezuela, Hugo Chávez — which gave Cuban officials the ability to retighten state control of the economy. But in the last two years Venezuela, which provides heavily subsidized oil to Cuba in exchange for medical services, has struggled with a worsening economic and political crisis, which could force it to cut off subsidies to Havana.

The precariousness of that relationship has added urgency to the debate over how fast the Cuban government needs to implement the reforms Raúl Castro endorsed. Old-guard leaders warn that a liberalized market economy could turn Cuba into a less egalitarian society and provide an opening for the United States to destabilize the government through a flood of private investment. Reformists, including some of the country’s leading economists, say the current state of the economy is untenable.

••

The reality is that the island’s social welfare achievements cannot be sustained if current economic and demographic trends hold. Cuba is currently ranked in the top tier of the United Nations Human Development Index[http://hdr.undp.org/en/content/table-1-human-development-index-and-its-components], a measure of a country’s education level, life expectancy and other variables. That’s an achievement matched by only two other countries in Latin America and the Caribbean, Argentina and Chile.

Wages in Cuba are worth roughly 28 percent of what they were before the collapse of the Soviet Union, according to the Center for the Study of the Cuban Economy at the state-run University of Havana. The devaluation has turned workplace theft into a major problem. It has also led tens of thousands of Cuban professionals to emigrate to the United States and elsewhere in Latin America in recent years in search of a better life. The country’s birthrate is declining, while its elderly are living longer.

The agricultural sector remains stymied by outdated technology and byzantine policies. A foreign investment law Cuba’s National Assembly approved in March has yet to deliver a single deal. Adding to the challenges, the Cuban government has pledged to do away soon with its dual-currency system (which includes a dollar-pegged peso established in the 1990s when tourism opened up), a process that could drive up inflation. Yet against the picture of stagnation is the growth of a new class of private-sector employees, now nearly 500,000 strong. That’s not a huge number in a nation of 11 million, but they are a marvel of ingenuity in a place where running a private restaurant requires buying virtually all ingredients on the black market. Basic staples, like potatoes, must be purchased as contraband in Cuba.

Many of those building small businesses, such as bed-and-breakfasts, are Cubans who returned with savings earned abroad and those with relatives outside the country who provided start-up capital. All struggle with the bureaucracy, since they are unable to import legally items as basic as mattresses and pillows. Bringing items from the United States is onerous and complicated by American sanctions. Cuban authorities appear conflicted about the growing private sector. While they welcome the employment and tax revenue it generates, bureaucrats are throttling businesses that are doing particularly well and forcing some to become joint ventures with the state. The underlying message seems to be: We want prosperity but not overly prosperous individuals.

Washington could empower the reformist camp by making it easier for Cuban entrepreneurs to get external financing and business training. That type of engagement is unlikely to succeed unless the United States abandons its policy of regime change. Cuba’s economic transformation may be proceeding slowly, but it could well lead to a more open society. For now, continued antagonism from Washington is only helping the old guard.

Leer en español (Read in Spanish) »[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/15/opinion/la-economa-de-cuba-en-una-encrucijada.html]

Meet The New York Times’s Editorial Board »

* Obama Should End the Embargo on Cuba[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/12/opinion/sunday/end-the-us-embargo-on-cuba.html]

* Still Pondering U.S.-Cuba Relations, Fidel Castro Responds[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/15/opinion/still-pondering-us-cuba-relations-fidel-castro-responds.html]

* Cuba’s Impressive Role on Ebola [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/20/opinion/cubas-impressive-role-on-ebola.html]

* The Shifting Politics of Cuba Policy [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/26/opinion/sunday/the-shifting-politics-of-cuba-policy.html]

* A Prisoner Swap With Cuba [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/03/opinion/a-prisoner-swap-with-cuba.html]

* In Cuba, Misadventures in Regime Change[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/10/opinion/in-cuba-misadventures-in-regime-change.html]

* A Cuban Brain Drain, Courtesy of the U.S.[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/17/opinion/a-cuban-brain-drain-courtesy-of-us.html]

Havana, Cuba | Ramon Espinosa/Associated Press

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141215eacf000pl


Editorial
Opinion
La economía de Cuba en una encrucijada
By EL COMITÉ EDITORIAL
1330 words
15 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
En julio de 2007, cuando Raúl Castro estaba al mando del país mientras su hermano recibía atención médica, el presidente interino emitió una crítica asombrosa de la economía cubana al describir las ineficiencias de la industria láctea. Su descripción del oneroso y costoso mecanismo para llevar la leche de las vacas hasta la mesa familiar era una historia ya conocida para los cubanos, quienes han sido sometidos por décadas a una economía centralizada, que se encuentra entre las más disfuncionales y anómalas del mundo. Pronto se hizo evidente que la inesperada franqueza de Castro ese día representaba el inicio de una era de transformación para la economía de la isla.

Luego de que Fidel Castro cediera el poder a su hermano en 2008, el Gobierno cubano inició una serie de reformas que han permitido que sus ciudadanos comiencen a crear formas de sustento que no están completamente sujetas al control del Estado. El ritmo ha sido vacilante, con mucho retroceso propiciado por la antigua guardia del Gobierno, que considera una mayor liberalización de la economía como un repudio del sistema socialista que Fidel Castro hizo sacrosanto.

El inminente final de la era de los Castro —Raúl Castro, de 83 años, ha dicho que dejará el cargo en 2018— coincide con un intenso debate sobre el futuro de la economía del país.

Hasta ahora, la administración Obama ha observado las reformas con escepticismo. La Casa Blanca ha flexibilizado las restricciones de viaje a la isla y de remesas, pero ha hecho relativamente poco para empezar a levantar la red de sanciones que Estados Unidos ha impuesto a Cuba durante décadas.

El presidente Obama podría ayudar a expandir el papel de la pequeña pero creciente clase empresarial al flexibilizar sanciones mediante pasos que puede tomar unilateralmente la rama ejecutiva. También puede colaborar con el creciente número de legisladores que apoyan la expansión de relaciones comerciales con Cuba. La Casa Blanca podría iniciar el proceso eliminando a Cuba de la lista del Departamento de Estado de países que respaldan a organizaciones terroristas. También es posible ampliar los mecanismos mediante los cuales los estadounidenses pueden proveer capital a las empresas independientes.

Hacer eso empoderaría a los cubanoamericanos que desean desempeñar un papel más robusto en la transformación económica de la isla. Además, gradualmente, disminuiría la habilidad del Gobierno cubano de culpar a Washington por las deficiencias de una economía que está fallando a sus ciudadanos, principalmente como resultado de las políticas estatales.

Antes de que Fidel Castro asumiera el poder en 1959, la economía de Cuba estaba dominada por su relación con Estados Unidos, entonces el más importante importador del principal producto cubano, azúcar. Los turistas estadounidenses viajaban a la isla por montones, atraídos por su proximidad, clima tropical y deleitante vida nocturna.

Luego del derrocamiento de Fulgencio Batista, un líder autoritario que había protegido los intereses comerciales estadounidenses, el Gobierno de Fidel Castro afianzó el control sobre, prácticamente, todo segmento de la economía. Decomisó tierra y propiedades de empresas estadounidenses y prometió garantizar vivienda, atención médica y educación a todos los ciudadanos. El sistema comunista generó una economía retrógrada y lánguida, respaldada ampliamente por Moscú. Pero luego del colapso de la Unión Soviética en 1991, la economía cubana se desplomó.

Los cubanos llaman de manera eufemística a la austera privación de los años 90 el “periodo especial”, una época en que el Gobierno cubano fue forzado a permitir cierta inversión extranjera y autorizar, de manera limitada, el empleo por cuenta propia. En 1999, la Habana encontró un nuevo benefactor en el recién elegido presidente de Venezuela, Hugo Chávez, cuyo apoyo hizo posible que las autoridades cubanas apretaran el control estatal de la economía.

Pero en los últimos dos años, Venezuela, que provee petróleo ampliamente subvencionado a Cuba a cambio de servicios médicos, lidia con una crisis política y económica que empeora, y que podría forzar la eliminación de subvenciones a La Habana.

La precariedad de esa relación le ha dado más urgencia al debate sobre cuán rápido el Gobierno cubano necesita implementar las reformas que respaldó Raúl Castro. Los líderes de la antigua guardia advierten que una economía de mercado liberalizada podría convertir a Cuba en una sociedad menos igualitaria y proveería una apertura a que Estados Unidos desestabilice al gobierno mediante una inundación de inversión privada. Los reformistas, incluidos algunos de los economistas más respetados del país, argumentan que el estado actual de la economía es insostenible.

La realidad es que los logros en la previsión social de la isla no pueden sustentarse si se mantienen las tendencias económicas y demográficas actuales. Cuba, Argentina y Chile son los únicos países de Latinoamérica y el Caribe actualmente clasificados en el rango superior del Índice de Desarrollo Humano de las Naciones Unidas, una medición del nivel educativo, expectativa de vida, entre otros indicadores, de un país.

El salario promedio en Cuba, en la actualidad, equivale a aproximadamente el 28% del valor adquisitivo antes del colapso de la Unión Soviética, según el Centro de Estudios de la Economía Cubana, una entidad estatal adscrita a la Universidad de la Habana. La devaluación ha causado hurtos descontrolados en los centros laborales. También ha incentivado a miles de profesionales cubanos que han emigrado a Estados Unidos y Latinoamérica en los últimos años en busca de una vida mejor. La tasa de natalidad del país ha descendido, a la vez que los ciudadanos en edad avanzada viven más tiempo.

El sector agrícola sigue obstaculizado por tecnología desactualizada y políticas bizantinas. Una ley para atraer inversión extranjera que la Asamblea Nacional de Cuba aprobó en marzo, aún no produce un solo acuerdo. Y, para aumentar los desafíos, el Gobierno cubano ha prometido eliminar próximamente su sistema de doble divisa, un proceso que podría generar inflación. El sistema dual, que incluye un peso ajustado al dólar, se estableció en los años 90, cuando se abrió el turismo.

A pesar del estancamiento económico, hay que destacar el crecimiento de una nueva clase de empleados del sector privado, actualmente casi 500,000. Aunque no es una cifra enorme en una nación de 11 millones de habitantes, constituye una clase sorprendentemente ingeniosa en un país donde administrar un restaurante privado exige adquirir prácticamente todos los ingredientes en el mercado negro. Un producto tan básico como la papa tiene que adquirirse como contrabando en Cuba.

Muchos de los que han establecido negocios, tales como posadas, son cubanos que regresaron con ahorros obtenidos en el extranjero y aquellos con parientes que aportaron el capital inicial. Todos luchan con la burocracia ante la imposibilidad de importar legalmente productos tan básicos como colchones y almohadas. Traer artículos de Estados Unidos es costoso y complicado, como consecuencia de las sanciones estadounidenses.

Las autoridades cubanas parecen tener una actitud inconstante respecto al creciente sector privado. Aunque dan la bienvenida al empleo y a la ganancia tributaria que genera, los burócratas están poniéndoles trabas a los negocios particularmente exitosos, y obligando algunos a convertirse en cooperativas administradas conjuntamente con el Estado. El mensaje parece ser: queremos prosperidad pero no personas más prósperas que otras.

Washington podría empoderar el campo reformista al facilitar que los empresarios cubanos obtengan financiamiento externo y formación empresarial. Es poco probable que esa estrategia sea exitosa, a menos que Estados Unidos abandone su política de cambio de régimen. A pesar de que la transformación económica de Cuba está avanzando lentamente, bien podría conducir a una sociedad más abierta. Por ahora, el continuo antagonismo proveniente de Washington solo está ayudando a la antigua guardia.

Leer en inglés (Read in English) »[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/15/opinion/cubas-economy-at-a-crossroads.html]

* Tiempo de acabar el embargo de Cuba[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/12/opinion/sunday/tiempo-de-acabar-el-embargo-de-cuba.html]

* Aún reflexionando sobre relaciones con EE.UU., Fidel Castro responde[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/15/opinion/-an-reflexionando-sobre-relaciones-con-eeuu-fidel-castro-responde.html]

* La impresionante contribución de Cuba en la lucha contra el ébola[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/20/opinion/la-impresionante-contribucin-de-cuba-en-la-lucha-contra-el-bola.html]

* Los cambios electorales respecto a Cuba[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/26/opinion/sunday/los-cambios-electorales-respecto-a-cuba.html]

* Un canje de presos con Cuba[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/03/opinion/un-canje-de-presos-con-cuba.html]

* En Cuba, desventuras al intentar derrocar un régimen[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/10/opinion/en-cuba-desventuras-al-intentar-derrocar-un-rgimen.html]

* La fuga de cerebros en Cuba, cortesía de EE.UU.[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/17/opinion/la-fuga-de-cerebros-en-cuba-cortesa-de-eeuu.html]

La Habana, Cuba | Ramon Espinosa/Associated Press

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141215eacf000pm


Corrections
Corrections: December 15, 2014
651 words
15 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
INTERNATIONAL

An article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/12/business/media/michel-du-cille-washington-post-announces-death-of-a-top-photographer.html?ref=obituaries] on Friday about the death in Liberia of Michel du Cille, a Washington Post photographer and Pulitzer Prize winner who had been covering the Ebola crisis, misspelled the surname of his wife. She is Nikki Kahn, not Khan.

•

Because of an editing error, an article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/06/world/europe/british-judge-lifts-restriction-on-books-in-prison.html] on Dec. 6 about the lifting of a British government ban on sending books to prisoners misstated the given name of the High Court judge who made the ruling. He is Andrew Collins, not Lawrence. (Lawrence Collins is a former justice on Britain’s Supreme Court.)

NATIONAL

An article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/11/health/architects-of-cia-interrogation-drew-on-psychology-to-induce-helplessness.html] on Thursday about psychology experiments that architects of the Central Intelligence Agency’s interrogation program drew on as the basis for brutal techniques misstated the name of an association of psychologists. It is The American Psychological Association (not Psychology). And the article misstated the middle initial of a psychologist who conducted early studies on “learned helplessness” in dogs. He is Martin E. P. Seligman, not Martin J.

NEW YORK

An article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/05/nyregion/politics-meeting-parody-at-princeton-in-student-election.html] on Dec. 5 about a Princeton student, Will Gansa, whose joke campaign for president of Princeton’s Undergraduate Student Government put him into a runoff misstated the details of a similar campaign last year in Harvard’s student government election. The candidate who became president, Gus Mayopoulos, ran for vice president, then assumed the presidency after his running mate stepped down; he did not run for president. (Mr. Gansa overwhelmingly lost the runoff election at Princeton.)

•

Because of an editing error, a picture caption[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/04/nyregion/nathan-silver-a-defender-of-new-york-landmarks-and-the-history-they-hold.html] in some editions on Dec. 4 with the Building Blocks column, about the author Nathan Silver and his dedication to the architecture of New York City, omitted part of the title of his book. As the column correctly noted, it is “Lost New York,” not “Lost in New York.”

BUSINESS DAY

An article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/02/world/asia/gregarious-and-direct-chinas-web-doorkeeper.html] on Dec. 2 about Lu Wei, China’s new Internet czar, misidentified, in some copies, the position he once held at the Xinhua News Agency headquarters. He was vice president, not vice bureau chief.

SPECIAL SECTION: DEALBOOK

A picture caption[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/?p=640377] on Thursday with an article about start-ups turning to crowdsourcing for financing described incorrectly how the woman pictured, Leslie Lienau, used Kickstarter. She financed her company through a Kickstarter campaign; she did not finance an iOS app using the service.

SPORTS

An article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/10/sports/basketball/louisville-and-villanova-pull-away-and-stay-unbeaten-.html?ref=sports] in some editions on Wednesday about the Jimmy V Classic college basketball games at Madison Square Garden misstated, in some copies, the day of the games. They were Tuesday night, not last Monday.

THE ARTS

A picture caption[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/02/arts/duncan-campbell-wins-turner-prize-for-a-film.html?module=Search&mabReward=relbias&] on Dec. 2 with an article about the Turner Prize, awarded annually to a British artist under 50, using information from Agence France-Presse — Getty Images, misidentified the work a person is shown viewing. It is “It for Others” by the winner of this year’s prize, Duncan Campbell — not “Sigmar,” another work by him. And the article referred incorrectly to the work for which the artist Ciara Phillips was nominated. It is titled “Workshop”; it is not unnamed.

OBITUARIES

An obituary[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/09/arts/dance/alla-sizova-star-kirov-ballerina-dies-at-75.html] on Tuesday about the ballerina Alla Sizova misspelled the surname of a ballerina who recalled Rudolf Nureyev’s reaction to being given an apartment to share with Ms. Sizova. She was Ninel Kurgapkina, not Kurgapina.

The Times welcomes comments and suggestions, or complaints about errors that warrant correction. Messages on news coverage can be e-mailed to nytnews@nytimes.com[mailto:nytnews@nytimes.com] or left toll-free at 1-888-NYT-NEWS (1-888-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be e-mailed to letters@nytimes.com[mailto:letters@nytimes.com] or faxed to (212) 556-3622.

Readers dissatisfied with a response or concerned about the paper’s journalistic integrity may reach the public editor at public@nytimes.com[mailto:public@nytimes.com] or (212) 556-7652.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or e-mail customercare@nytimes.com[mailto:customercare@nytimes.com].

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141215eacf000xe


Metropolitan Desk; SECTA
Corrections
44 words
15 December 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
2
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
An article on Friday about the death in Liberia of Michel du Cille, a Washington Post photographer and Pulitzer Prize winner who had been covering the Ebola crisis, misspelled the surname of his wife. She is Nikki Kahn, not Khan.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141215eacf000ae


Science
Best Selling Science Books
604 words
16 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
1 BEING MORTAL [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/09/books/review/atul-gawande-being-mortal-review.html] by Atul Gawande. Metropolitan/Holt. The surgeon and New Yorker writer considers how doctors fail patients at the end of life, and how they can do better. (1)

2 WHAT IF?[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/04/science/randall-munroe-the-creator-of-xkcd-explains-complexity-through-absurdity.html] by Randall Munroe. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. Scientific (but often humorous) answers to hypothetical questions, based in part on the author’s website, xkcd.com[http://xkcd.com]. (4)

3 THE INNOVATORS[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/02/fashion/the-innovators-by-walter-isaacson-how-women-shaped-technology.html] by Walter Isaacson. Simon & Schuster. Studies of the people who created computers and the Internet, beginning in the 1840s. (2)

4 QUIET[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/02/12/books/review/susan-cains-quiet-argues-for-the-power-of-introverts.html?pagewanted=all] by Susan Cain. Crown. Introverts — one-third of the population — are undervalued in American society. (6)

5 UNDENIABLE[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/04/science/in-undeniable-bill-nye-speaks-evolution-directly-to-creationists.html] by Bill Nye. St. Martin’s. The “Science Guy” explains how evolution shapes our lives.

6 THINKING, FAST AND SLOW[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/11/27/books/review/thinking-fast-and-slow-by-daniel-kahneman-book-review.html?pagewanted=all] by Daniel Kahneman. Farrar, Straus and Giroux. The winner of a Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices in business and personal life and when we can and cannot trust our intuitions. (8)

7 THE POWER OF HABIT[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/03/11/books/review/the-power-of-habit-by-charles-duhigg.html?pagewanted=all] by Charles Duhigg. Random House. An examination of the science behind habits, how we form them and break them. (10)

8 ONE NATION UNDER TAUGHT by Vince M. Bertram. Beaufort Books. How to help American students who are falling behind in science, technology, engineering and math education.

9 THE SCIENCE OF INTERSTELLAR by Kip Thorne. Norton. A physicist explains the science behind the movie.

10 THE HOT ZONE[http://www.nytimes.com/1994/09/30/books/books-of-the-times-a-visit-to-the-biohazard-battleground.html] by Richard Preston. Anchor. The discovery of the Ebola virus, and the efforts to keep it from spreading; first published in 1994. (3)

11 YOU ARE HERE by Chris Hadfield. Little, Brown. Photographs from the International Space Station by a former astronaut.

12 IN THE KINGDOM OF ICE[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/17/books/review/in-the-kingdom-of-ice-by-hampton-sides.html] by Hampton Sides. Doubleday. An 1879 polar voyage gone terribly wrong.

13 HOW WE GOT TO NOW[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/15/arts/television/pbss-how-we-got-to-now-with-steven-johnson.html] by Steven Johnson. Riverhead. A history of innovation focused on the development of six key technologies of modern life; the companion volume to a PBS series. (5)

14 THE MEANING OF HUMAN EXISTENCE[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/10/books/edward-o-wilsons-the-meaning-of-human-existence.html] by Edward O. Wilson. Liveright. The Pulitzer Prize-winning biologist grapples with ultimate philosophical questions: How and why did humanity come to exist?

15 THIS CHANGES EVERYTHING[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/09/books/review/naomi-klein-this-changes-everything-review.html] by Naomi Klein. Simon & Schuster. The author of “The Shock Doctrine” argues that the free market created and is worsening the climate crisis. (9)

16 THE BODY KEEPS THE SCORE by Bessel van der Kolk. Viking. A doctor explains the neurological compensations that follow a wide range of emotional and physical traumas.

17 THE MORAL CASE FOR FOSSIL FUELS by Alex Epstein. Portfolio/Penguin. An argument that the benefits of fossil energy are greater than the risks.

18 THE SENSE OF STYLE[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/19/books/review/steven-pinker-the-sense-of-style-review.html] by Steven Pinker. Viking. The Harvard psychologist and linguist updates the rules of writing with a more relaxed approach to grammar. (7)

19 THE ELEMENTS by Theodore Gray; photography by Nick Mann. Black Dog & Leventhal. A visual exploration of “every known atom in the universe.”

20 MOLECULES by Theodore Gray; photography by Nick Mann. Black Dog & Leventhal. How the elements of the periodic table combine to form the chemical architecture of every material.

The titles ranked here are selected by the science editors from all adult nonfiction books reported to The New York Times for the month. These titles are fundamentally based on the sciences; those for which science is more tangential or peripheral are generally excluded. Rankings reflect combined print and e-book sales for November 2014. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book’s sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (†) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders.

* Science Bookshelf: Methodology[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/04/16/science/science-bookshelf-methodology.html]

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141215eacg002e6


U.S.; Politics
Senate, Ending Long Fight, Confirms Obama Pick for Surgeon General
By JEREMY W. PETERS
768 words
16 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
WASHINGTON — The Senate on Monday confirmed President Obama’s nominee for surgeon general, ending a long fight over gun control and politics that had left the country without a permanent top doctor for a year and a half.

In an early-evening vote, Dr. Vivek H. Murthy, an internal medicine physician, was approved 51 to 43.

The confirmation was one of the last acts of business for the Democratic-controlled Senate. Had it not moved, the nomination would have died, making it unlikely the president would have been able to get anyone approved to the post for the remainder of his time in the White House.

Democrats said there was no compelling reason to delay the Murthy nomination, especially as the nation’s public health system remains on edge after the Ebola outbreak in West Africa and a number of recent scares at American hospitals. In a statement applauding the vote, Mr. Obama directly cited the threat from Ebola and said that Dr. Murthy’s confirmation would help make the country safer.

“Vivek’s confirmation makes us better positioned to save lives around the world and protect the American people here at home,” the president said.

But Republicans saw Dr. Murthy as a politically connected supporter of Mr. Obama’s who would use his position to push for stricter gun control. Though the surgeon general’s office does not set or carry out gun policy, Dr. Murthy’s support for banning the sale of certain weapons and ammunition, as well as for longer waiting periods for firearms sales, drew the ire of gun rights advocates like the National Rifle Association.

The association said it would include the vote in its calculation to determine how senators fare on its annual scorecard, an attempt to dissuade lawmakers from voting yes. Earlier this year as many as 10 Democrats were considering voting against Dr. Murthy. Their wavering forced the White House to ask the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid, to delay a vote in March.

But in the end, the political immunity of lame duck status was too much to overcome — even for the N.R.A. Senators Mark Begich of Alaska, Mary L. Landrieu of Louisiana and Mark Pryor of Arkansas, all Democrats who lost in November, voted for Dr. Murthy.

Other Democrats from conservative-leaning states who voted yes included Senators Jon Tester of Montana and Claire McCaskill of Missouri. Just one Republican, Mark S. Kirk of Illinois, voted for the nomination.

Democrats who voted no were Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota and Joe Donnelly of Indiana.

None of what Dr. Murthy said on guns was out of step with the American public opinion, surveys show. He favored more restrictions on who can own guns and how they can be purchased, views he said stemmed from his experience seeing the effects of gun violence firsthand as a physician in the emergency room.

Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said that Dr. Murthy was being punished for telling the truth.

“The simple fact is gun violence impacts far too many people,” he said, running down a list of statistics about gun deaths. “Pointing out these facts and asking whether there are strategies we could apply to bring that number down is exactly what a person tasked to keep Americans healthy ought to be doing.”

Senator John Barrasso, Republican of Wyoming and a surgeon, said Dr. Murthy was more advocate than physician.

“Americans want the same thing from a surgeon general that they all want from their own doctors,” he said. “People want honest and straightforward advice about medical dangers like cancer[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/cancer/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier], like heart attacks, like stroke. They don’t want an inexperienced, unqualified political appointee.”

In addition to his stance on guns, Dr. Murthy’s background troubled Republicans and some Democrats. He helped found a group called Doctors for Obama that supported the president’s 2008 campaign and later fought for the passage of the Affordable Care Act under the new name Doctors for America.

Mr. Manchin, the West Virginia Democrat, said he believed that Dr. Murthy’s close political association to the president would be difficult for people to see past. “I truly do not believe that he will be able to do the job that needs to be done in such difficult and challenging times because of his political involvement,” Mr. Manchin said.

Dr. Murthy teaches at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Harvard Medical School.

Dr. Vivek H. Murthy | Charles Dharapak/Associated Press

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141215eacg003jv


Multimedia/Photos
Best of 2014: The Year in Video
By THE NEW YORK TIMES
392 words
16 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Our top ten videos of the year range from one man’s incredible tale of surviving an ISIS massacre to a charming — and very kid-friendly — dinner experiment.

1 — Surviving an ISIS Massacre

2 — Fighting Ebola Outbreak Street by Street

3 — The Nipple Artist

4 — Michael Brown’s Body

5 — Small Plates

6 — Good Night, Margaret

7 — Slomo

8 — 21st-Century Concentration Camps

9 — Major Malfunction: Revisiting Challenger

10 — A Liquid Fear

ISIS massacred hundreds of Iraqi military recruits in June. Ali Hussein Kadhim survived. This is his improbable story. [Includes graphic images.] | Mike Shum, Greg Campbell, Adam B. Ellick and Mona El-Naggar | Some ambulance workers in Monrovia have been infected with Ebola, while others have been attacked for not getting to patients in time. | Ben C. Solomon | A tattoo parlor in Finksburg, Md., has become an unlikely destination for breast cancer survivors. | Kassie Bracken and Taige Jensen | For at least four hours after he was shot by a police officer, the body of Michael Brown lay in the middle of Canfield Drive. What happened in those hours set the stage for two weeks of unrest. | Brent McDonald and Alexandra Garcia | For the magazine’s fall Food issue, we treated six second graders from P.S. 295 in Brooklyn to dinner at Daniel, where the seven-course tasting menu goes for $220 a person. | Jeffrey Blitz for The New York Times | When Margaret “Muffi” Lavigne and Chris Plum, both with muscular dystrophy, met at the Hospital for Special Care in New Britain, Conn., their lives took an unexpected turn. | Rick Gershon and Catherine Spangler | Dr. John Kitchin quit a medical career to pursue his passion: skating along the boardwalk of San Diego’s Pacific Beach. He calls himself “Slomo.” | Joshua Izenberg | Nicholas Kristof travels to Myanmar, where Muslims are confined to camps or within their own villages, deprived of jobs, schools and doctors. Why is the world silent? | Adam B. Ellick | On Jan. 28, 1986, seven astronauts “slipped the surly bonds of earth to touch the face of God.” America’s space program was never the same. | Retro Report | Two childhood experiences with water left Attis Clopton with a phobia that lasted for decades, until another major life event inspired him to face his fears. | Leslye Davis

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141216eacg003jt


U.S.
Your Tuesday Briefing
By ADEEL HASSAN and VICTORIA SHANNON
1020 words
16 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Good morning.

Here’s what you need to know:

• Militants lay siege to school.

Taliban gunmen attacked a school in northwest Pakistan today, killing at least 145 and wounding more than 100[http://www.bbc.com/news/live/world-asia-30491113]. Most of the victims are children of military families.

Officials say the attack, the deadliest ever by the Taliban in Pakistan, is now over, with all of the militants killed.

• Mourning in Australia.

As flags fly at half-staff, the police began an inquiry today into the operation that ended the 16-hour siege of a cafe in Sydney on Monday.

They want to know whether the two hostages — a cafe manager and a lawyer — were killed by the gunman or died in the crossfire.

And the prime minister is questioning why the gunman[http://www.nytimes.com/aponline/2014/12/16/world/asia/ap-as-australia-police-operation.html], an Iranian refugee who was a known extremist who faced multiple criminal charges, was not on the country’s terrorism watch list.

• Apple not guilty.

An eight-person jury decided today after about three hours deliberation that Apple did not [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/17/technology/apple-antitrust-suit-ipod-music.html]block songs[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/17/technology/apple-antitrust-suit-ipod-music.html] sold by rival music stores from the iPod in order to monopolize the digital music market.

The class-action lawsuit had been around in various forms for 10 years before it finally went to trial in early December.

• Grace period on health care.

The health insurance industry today is announcing that companies will give consumers more time[http://www.nytimes.com/aponline/2014/12/16/us/politics/ap-us-health-overhaul-insurers.html] to pay January’s premiums under the Affordable Care Act.

It is trying to avoid complications as millions of customers renew their plans and new ones come aboard.

• Mideast diplomacy.

Secretary of State John Kerry is in London today, talking to Palestinian and Arab League officials[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/16/world/middleeast/palestinians-seek-un-vote-on-israeli-withdrawal-from-occupied-west-bank.html].

A Palestinian-drafted resolution to the U.N. Security Council, calling for Israel to leave the occupied West Bank by November 2016, could be voted on this week.

• For their consideration.

The lame-duck Senate is acting on executive and judicial branch nominations this week.

On Monday, it confirmed the nominee for surgeon general[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/16/us/obamas-nominee-for-surgeon-general-wins-confirmation.html].

• At the White House.

President Obama is meeting this morning with Archbishop Joseph Kurtz of Louisville, president of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops.

In the afternoon, he convenes a meeting of the National Security Council.

• Fallout from “nut rage.”

South Korean authorities said today that Korean Air will be punished[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/17/world/asia/korean-air-faces-flight-suspensions-over-executives-snack-tantrum.html] with up to a 21-day suspension of flights or a $1.3 million fine after its handling of a dispute over serving macadamia nuts.

MARKETS

• Wall Street stocks are mixed. Europe shares are higher, and Asian indexes ended mostly lower.

• Russia’s economy edged toward panic despite a middle-of-the-night move by the central bank [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/17/business/russia-ruble-interest-rates.html]to prop up the currency by raising interest rates to 17 percent from 10.5 percent.

Plummeting oil prices and Western sanctions over Ukraine are pushing Russia into stagflation, a period of high inflation and low growth.

• One of Britain’s major banks, the Co-operative Bank, flunked the Bank of England’s new stress test, and two others, Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/12/16/3-banks-fall-short-in-bank-of-england-stress-test/], barely passed.

• Apple announced today that dozens more banks and retailers — including TD Bank North America, Staples and Winn-Dixie — have signed up for its mobile payment service called Apple Pay[http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/12/16/dozens-more-companies-sign-up-for-apple-pay/?src=twr].

NOTEWORTHY

• The year in search.

Robin Williams, World Cup, Ebola and Malaysia Airlines are 2014’s most searched terms worldwide, Google said today in its annual “Zeitgeist” report[http://www-google-com.proxy.bc.edu/trends/topcharts#geo&date=2014].

Others in the top 10 are ice bucket challenge, Flappy Bird and ISIS.

• Teenagers and e-cigarettes.

Seventeen percent of high school seniors have tried electronic cigarettes[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/17/science/national-institute-on-drug-abuse-e-cigarette-study.html], while the number smoking tobacco cigarettes dropped to new lows, according to an annual drug-use survey released today.

Marijuana use by teenagers appeared to level off after recent increases, the National Institutes of Health said, while binge drinking of alcohol and abuse of synthetic marijuana and prescription drugs showed declines.

• Rock ‘n’ roll royalty.

Lou Reed, Green Day and the 1970s soul star Bill Withersare among the 2015 inductees to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame[http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/12/16/lou-reed-green-day-and-bill-withers-to-join-rock-hall-of-fame/].

Also to be honored in Cleveland on April 18 are the Paul Butterfield Blues Band, Joan Jett and the Blackhearts, and Stevie Ray Vaughan and his group Double Trouble, the organization said today.

• Free agent signings.

Chase Headley agreed to a $52 million, four-year contract to stay with the Yankees, signaling that New York is not counting on Alex Rodriguez to play third base regularly.

There were other big deals[http://www.nytimes.com/aponline/2014/12/16/sports/baseball/ap-bbo-free-agents-things-to-know.html] in Major League Baseball on Monday.

• Soccer star calls time.

Thierry Henry[http://www.bbc.com/sport/0/football/30491577], 37, said today that he is retiring after a 20-year soccer career that included star turns at Arsenal, on the 1998 French team that won the World Cup, and for the New York Red Bulls.

BACK STORY

Soon after Thomas Edison patented the first commercially viable light bulb, he strung a few together during the 1880 Christmas season and hung them outside his lab in Menlo Park, N.J.

In 1882, Edison’s partner, Edward H. Johnson, went a step further, tying together red, white and blue lights and wrapping them around his Christmas tree.

The practice didn’t immediately catch on. Electricity was widely mistrusted because people thought dangerous vapors would seep into their homes through the lights and wires.

President Grover Cleveland is credited with popularizing electric Christmas tree lights[http://www.loc.gov/rr/scitech/mysteries/christmaslights.html] after he used them to light the first family’s tree in 1895.

And in 1923, President Calvin Coolidge began the tradition of the National Christmas Tree, adorning it with 3,000 bulbs on the White House’s South Lawn.

We’ve come a long way: This year, 300,000 girls are taking part in a Google project[http://www.techtimes.com/articles/21582/20141205/google-gets-girls-to-program-white-house-christmas-tree-lights.htm] to use computer code to program the White House tree lights.

Tatiana Schlossberg contributed reporting.

Your Morning Briefing is posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com[mailto:briefing@nytimes.com].

Want to get the briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up[http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/nytnow/].

Taliban gunmen attacked a military school in Pakistan, killing at least 145, mostly children. | Mohammad Sajjad/Associated Press

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141216eacg0028l


A
FEWER EBOLA CASES GO UNREPORTED THAN THOUGHT, STUDY FINDS
By DONALD G MCNEIL JR
58 words
16 December 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
8
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Study published in journal Clinical Infectious Diseases finds that transmission of Ebola virus occurs mostly within families, in hospitals and at funerals, not randomly like influenza; study also shows that far fewer cases go unreported than has previously been estimated. Photo (M)

Photograph

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141217eacg00041


Science
Fewer Ebola Cases Go Unreported Than Thought, Study Finds
By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.
1019 words
16 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Correction Appended

Transmission of the Ebola virus occurs mostly within families, in hospitals and at funerals, not randomly like the flu, Yale scientists said Tuesday, and far fewer cases go unreported than has previously been estimated.

That implies, they said, that the epidemic is unlikely to reach the gloomy scenarios of hundreds of thousands of cases[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/13/world/africa/us-scientists-see-long-fight-against-ebola.html] that studies released in September had forecast were possible; the most pessimistic one, from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/c/centers_for_disease_control_and_prevention/index.html?inline=nyt-org], had predicted up to 1.4 million cases[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/24/health/ebola-cases-could-reach-14-million-in-4-months-cdc-estimates.html] by late January.

As of Monday, there were 18,464 confirmed cases in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, with 6,841 deaths, according to the World Health Organization[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/w/world_health_organization/index.html?inline=nyt-org], far more than from all the previous Ebola outbreaks combined.

The new study[http://cid.oxfordjournals.org.proxy.bc.edu/content/early/recent], led by epidemiologists from the Yale School of Public Health, was published online by the journal Clinical Infectious Diseases. Scientists from Texas, Brazil and the Liberian Health Ministry contributed to the research.

The researchers said they had too little data to predict how many West Africans could eventually be infected, but enough to show that the dire predictions were inaccurate.

In a brief written response, the C.D.C. said that its September projection was “a first attempt to better understand to what extent underreporting was occurring in West Africa.” The new study, the agency said, “further refines our understanding, and C.D.C. applauds the method.”

The worst-case estimates made in September by the C.D.C., the World Health Organization and others were based on what would happen if the world did not mount an effective response. In the months since, donors have committed hundreds of millions of dollars and thousands of soldiers have been sent into the region, while doctors and nurses have volunteered to help.

By looking at virus samples gathered in Sierra Leone and contract-tracing data from Liberia, the scientists working on the new study estimated that about 17 percent of cases in West Africa go unreported, up to a maximum of 70 percent. That is far fewer than earlier estimates.

In practical terms, said Jeffrey Townsend, a Yale biostatistician and the study’s lead author, that means that for every 100 known cases, there are 120 actual ones, rather than 250 as in the earlier estimates.

The study concludes that the epidemic may not be as difficult to control as previously feared if rapid, vigorous contact tracing and quarantines are employed.

In Nigeria and Mali, health workers rapidly traced hundreds of contacts of three initial cases: a Liberian businessman in Nigeria, and an infant and an imam from Guinea in Mali. The outbreaks were halted. The epidemic in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone has proved much more difficult to stop, in part because it had spread to many people in the three months before it was identified as Ebola.

Although the scientists worked with relatively small amounts of data, two kinds produced similar conclusions.

Sierra Leone’s outbreak began when 14 women were infected at the funeral of a traditional healer on the Guinea border. Viral sequences from the first 78 cases were so closely related that it was clear that none had passed through many undetected people before reaching a known Ebola victim, Dr. Townsend explained.

The Liberian data, gathered during three weeks of contact tracing in August, showed that the third person in any transmission chain often knew both the first and second person. That is not true in flu, he said, which can be caught from casual contact in offices, on subway cars or in hallways.

The fact that Ebola mostly spreads among people in close contact with one another was “not a huge surprise” to any medical professional working in West Africa, Dr. Townsend said, “but it’s nice to have the data quantitatively saying something.”

Bryan Lewis, an epidemiologist at the Virginia Bioinformatics Institute at Virginia Tech and lead author of a study released on Sept. 11 that forecast there could be hundreds of thousands of infections, said he respected the new study’s authors and their analysis. But he contended that assuming only 120 actual cases for every 100 known ones was “a little too optimistic.”

Epidemics surge and wane and the accuracy of case counts falls during surges, Dr. Lewis said, so extrapolating an estimate from one month’s data to an entire outbreak was “not legitimate.”

Dr. Townsend agreed, saying: “This is a small light on a small part of the outbreak. We need more data.”

Asked if he thought horrific sights like dead bodies in the streets might have helped exaggerate epidemic forecasts, Dr. Townsend recalled a psychology experiment in which an actor playing a policeman arrests another actor in front of witnesses. When the policeman loudly intimidated the arrestee, the experimenters found, witnesses said he was up to a foot taller than he actually was.

“Fear tends to make people’s estimates based on intuition worse,” Dr. Townsend said.

Correction: December 22, 2014, Monday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/16/science/fewer-ebola-cases-go-unreported-than-thought-study-finds-.html] on Tuesday about a study analyzing Ebola case counts in West Africa misstated the rate of underreporting of cases of the disease. It was 17 percent, up to a maximum of 70 percent, not 70 percent. And the article, using information from the study’s lead author, misstated the practical implications of the previous estimate to which the new rate was compared. It meant that for every 100 known cases, there would have been 250 real cases, not 350 real cases.

* An Ebola Orphan’s Plea in Africa: ‘Do You Want Me?’[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/world/africa/an-ebola-orphans-plea-in-africa-do-you-want-me.html]

* As Ebola Rages, Poor Planning Thwarts Efforts [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/07/world/africa/as-ebola-rages-in-sierra-leone-poor-planning-thwarts-efforts.html]

* New Concerns Over Response to Ebola Crisis[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/03/world/africa/new-concerns-over-response-to-ebola-crisis.html]

A woman in Monrovia, Liberia, spoke to children who were quarantined after their parents showed signs of Ebola; the father died. | Daniel Berehulak for The New York Times | Monrovia, the Liberian capital, is facing a widespread Ebola epidemic, and as the number of infected grows faster than hospital capacity, some patients wait outside near death. | Ben C. Solomon

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141216eacg001gt


Business Day
F.D.A. Approves System That May Make Blood Transfusions Safer
By ANDREW POLLACK
822 words
17 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The Food and Drug Administration[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/f/food_and_drug_administration/index.html?inline=nyt-org] on Tuesday approved the first system that could be used by blood banks to destroy viruses and bacteria in donated blood plasma, potentially making transfusions safer.

The system represents an extra safety step beyond testing donations for viruses like H.I.V.[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/aids/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] and hepatitis C[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/hepatitis-c/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier], and one that can protect against pathogens that seem to emerge periodically.

“You can’t test for something unless you know what it is,” said William M. Greenman, the chief executive of Cerus[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/business/companies/cerus-corporation/index.html?inline=nyt-org], the company that developed the product, which is known as the Intercept Blood System. He said Intercept was “much more comprehensive than what you would be able to achieve with testing.”

The product is being used in a clinical trial in West Africa to make plasma donated by Ebola survivors safer to use as a possible treatment for people who still have the disease.

Some experts in blood transfusions said, however, that it was far from clear that Intercept would be widely used in the United States, where the blood supply is already deemed safe. Testing of donated blood for various viruses will continue, they said, so the Intercept treatment would represent an additional cost.

“The nonprofit blood collection industry can’t afford it,” said Dr. Michael P. Busch, director of the nonprofit Blood Systems Research Institute and a professor at the University of California, San Francisco. “Blood is extraordinarily safe now.”

Mr. Greenman said the company’s treatment would add about $30 to the approximately $60 cost of obtaining and testing a unit of plasma, the liquid component of blood. Cerus also hopes to receive approval soon to treat platelets, which cause blood to clot. He said Intercept would add about $50 to the roughly $500 cost of a unit of platelets, which are prone to bacterial contamination. Approval for red blood cells, which carry oxygen in the bloodstream and account for most transfusions, remains years away.

The system involves adding a chemical to the plasma or platelets and then exposing them to ultraviolet light. The light causes the chemical to bind to any DNA or RNA in the sample, rendering bacteria, viruses or other pathogens unable to replicate. The plasma and platelets do not need RNA or DNA to function, so they are not harmed, at least in theory.

The F.D.A. cautioned that the system was not foolproof. While the system works well against H.I.V., hepatitis B[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/hepatitis-b/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] and C, West Nile virus[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/west-nile-virus/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] and many bacteria, some viruses like human parvovirus B19[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/fifth-disease/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] and some bacterial spores are resistant, the agency said.

Dr. Walter Dzik, co-director of the transfusion service at Massachusetts General Hospital, said there was some concern that “in the process of killing the germs, you may damage the platelets as well.” There have also been concerns about the safety of the chemical used to treat the blood.

Mr. Greenman of Cerus said there was a slight loss of platelets during the process, but that was minor. He said that the system had proved safe in Europe, where it was approved several years ago. Cerus reported revenues of $26.8 million in the first nine months of the year but still lost $18.6 million. The company’s stock rose 20 percent in after-hours trading Tuesday, after the F.D.A. announcement.

Products like immune globulin and clotting factors that are made in factories from pooled plasma donations have long been subject to pathogen inactivation treatment. But Intercept is the first approved process that blood banks will perform themselves.

Some experts said the system might be most useful in areas without safe blood supplies. In West Africa, a trial has just started testing blood from Ebola survivors as a treatment for those still battling the disease. The so-called convalescent plasma is presumed to contain antibodies[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/test/antibody-titer/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] effective against the virus.

But those survivors might have other diseases like malaria[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/malaria/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] or H.I.V., and testing for them might not be as thorough as in the United States. The Intercept system is providing an extra level of safety in the trial, which is being paid for by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.

The system is now also being used at Emory University to treat plasma donations from Ebola survivors, Mr. Greenman said. He said it would be used to treat platelet donations in Puerto Rico, where blood banks were trying to cope with the dengue and chikungunya viruses.

Cerus, based in Concord, Calif., was started in 1991 after one of its founders, a hematologist, noticed that patients with hemophilia[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/hemophilia/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] were developing AIDS because of tainted blood transfusions and clotting factors. But Cerus had a long struggle to persuade the F.D.A. that Intercept is safe and effective.

“This is a story about perseverance,” Mr. Greenman said. “It’s an emotional time for the company.”

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141217each000gr


World; Africa
U.N. Secretary General to Visit Ebola-Plagued Nations
By SOMINI SENGUPTA
396 words
17 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The United Nations[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/u/united_nations/index.html?inline=nyt-org] secretary general, Ban Ki-moon[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/b/ban_ki_moon/index.html?inline=nyt-per], plans to visit the three West African countries that have been hit the hardest by the Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] outbreak, according to a senior United Nations official.

Mr. Ban is to make the announcement at a year-end news conference on Wednesday. The director general of the World Health Organization, Margaret Chan, and his special envoy on Ebola, Dr. David Nabarro, are to accompany him to West Africa.

The trip, which is to be begin later this week, seems designed to send a message of solidarity with the three affected countries: Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/sierraleone/index.html?inline=nyt-geo].

The United Nations, which has been accused of responding too slowly to the outbreak, failed to meet its own targets for stopping the spread of the virus, and remains far from achieving its ambition to wipe it out completely from West Africa.

United Nations officials insist that they are making progress in containing the disease: Its growth has slowed in some places. Even so, they admit they are unlikely to meet their year-end goal of treating all patients and safely burying all the dead.

So far, according to the World Health Organization, Ebola has infected at least 18,000 people and left a death toll of at least 6,800. The geography of the infection has shifted, complicating the efforts to eradicate it. For instance, in Sierra Leone, Ebola is ravaging the western part of the country, while only a handful of new cases are surfacing in previous hot spots.

United Nations officials have acknowledged in recent weeks that they are continuing to chase the outbreak rather than end it.

Ebola has presented a major test of Mr. Ban’s leadership. In mid-September, he established an unusual emergency mission to coordinate the global response and he pressed world leaders to send money, doctors, and medical supplies. So far, his appeal for $1.5 billion remains underfunded. Big treatment centers have gone into operation just as the virus has raced ahead to other areas. It has been especially difficult to persuade skilled foreign health workers to work in Ebola clinics.

Mr. Ban had planned to visit the Ebola-affected countries earlier, but his aides said it had been difficult to accommodate that trip into an already busy travel schedule.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141217each000xh


City Room
N.Y. / Region
New York Today: Bravery in Transit
By ANNIE CORREAL
1063 words
17 December 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
Good morning on this mild Wednesday.

An easy day on the job is hard to come by for a New York City transit worker.

And then there is the day a man threatens to slash other passengers on the subway.

That day came for Carlos Padro, a special inspector for the Select Bus Service, on Oct. 30.

Mr. Padro, 55, was one of 30 transit workers honored for bravery and service this year[http://www.mta.info/press-release/nyc-transit/mta-honors-30-nyc-transit-workers-acts-bravery-excellence] by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.

He was on his way to work on a northbound No. 1 train when a man began shouting.

“As the train starts pulling out of 59th he says, ‘I’m going to slice some people up today,’” Mr. Padro said.

The man took out something that “appeared to be shaped like a box cutter,” and pulled the emergency brake, said Mr. Padro.

At that point, Mr. Padro, a retired police officer, moved to block him off.

He pulled his revolver and told the man to drop the weapon.

(New York allows qualified retired police officers[http://www.handgunlaw.us/states/newyork.pdf] to carry handguns.)

“As he was letting it go, I rushed and knocked him down,” Mr. Padro said.

The man was taken into custody; the weapon was found to be an electric toothbrush.

Other M.T.A. honorees this year included a subway supervisor who kept a customer from touching the third rail, a bus driver who helped keep passengers safe during a shooting, and two car cleaners who found a missing autistic boy.

Here’s what else you need to know.

WEATHER

Blue skies with painterly little clouds, and a high of 50 degrees[http://forecast.weather.gov/MapClick.php?lat=40.78137333318327&lon=-73.96717071533203#.VJFcAyfqbOH].

This week, the days began getting longer again. The sun is now setting at 4:30 p.m.[http://www.timeanddate.com/sun/usa/new-york] in New York and will began to set later and later.

COMING UP TODAY

• Public defenders call for police reform outside Brooklyn Criminal Court in Downtown Brooklyn. 9:50 a.m.

• Bodega owners gather on the steps of City Hall to protest what they say is a growing monopoly by beer companies[http://www.crainsnewyork.com/article/20141215/HOSPITALITY_TOURISM/312149987/cheers-more-like-jeers-for-proposed-beer-merger]. 10 a.m.

• State Senator Liz Krueger holds a forum at 250 Broadway on legislation to regulate and tax marijuana[http://www.nysenate.gov/event/2014/dec/17/senator-krueger-assemblymember-peoples-stokes-hold-first-nyc-public-forum-nys-mari] like alcohol. 11 a.m.

• The mayor visits Rikers Island[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/21/nyregion/rikers-needs-culture-change-mayor-de-blasio-says.html] and holds a news conference. 1 p.m.

• The recently closed Tea Lounge[http://www.dnainfo.com/new-york/20141216/park-slope/tea-lounge-regulars-negotiations-reopen-beloved-park-slope-cafe] in Park Slope auctions off its tattered couches and other items. 2:30 p.m.

• A Hanukkah menorah lighting[http://brotherhoodsynagogue.org] in Gramercy Park. 5:30 p.m.

• Christian Rudder, the OkCupid co-founder and dating data miner,[http://www.nypl.org/events/programs/2014/12/17/dataclysm-who-we-are-when-we-think-no-ones-looking-christian-rudder] talks about his new book, “Dataclysm,” at the Mid-Manhattan Library. 6:30 p.m. [Free]

• Noël Nights[http://thetownhall.org/event/584-rufus-and-martha-wainwrights-noel-nights], Rufus and Martha Wainwright’s holiday show at Town Hall in Midtown, featuring Cyndi Lauper and Emmylou Harris. 8 p.m. [$47 and up]

• City officials hold a candlelight vigil with the Pakistani community for the victims of the Peshawar school massacre [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/17/world/asia/taliban-attack-pakistani-school.html], at 1090 Coney Island Avenue in Midwood, Brooklyn. 8 p.m.

• Devils host Senators, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Nets at Raptors, 8 p.m. (YES).

• For more events, see The New York TimesArts & Entertainment guide[http://www.nytimes.com/events].

COMMUTE

• Subway[http://new.mta.info/] and PATH[http://www.paalerts.com/recent_pathalerts.aspx]

• L.I.R.R., Metro-North[http://new.mta.info/], N.J. Transit[http://www.njtransit.com/sa/sa_servlet.srv?hdnPageAction=TravelAlertsTo], Amtrak[http://www.amtrak.com/service-alerts-and-notices]

• Roads: Check traffic map[http://newyork.cbslocal.com/traffic/] or radio report on the 1s[http://betaplayer.radio.com/player/1010-wins] or the 8s[http://betaplayer.radio.com/player/wcbs-newsradio-880].

• Alternate-side parking: in effect[http://www.nyc.gov/html/dot/html/motorist/alternate-side-parking.shtml#cal] until Christmas.

• Air travel: La Guardia[http://flightaware.com/live/airport/KLGA], J.F.K.[http://flightaware.com/live/airport/KJFK], Newark[http://flightaware.com/live/airport/KEWR].

IN THE NEWS

• The mayor will meet at City Hall on Friday with some organizers of the recent New York protests. [New York Times[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/17/nyregion/new-york-protesters-to-meet-with-mayor-bill-de-blasio.html?ref=nyregion]]

• The city comptroller is seeking to settle a $75 million civil rights claim brought by Eric Garner’s family, averting a long trial in federal court. [New York Times[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/17/nyregion/scott-stringer-comptroller-seeks-eric-garner-settlement.html?ref=nyregion]]

• The police announced a $12,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of seven people who clashed with officers during recent protests on the Brooklyn Bridge. [CBS[http://newyork.cbslocal.com/2014/12/16/video-shows-apparent-assault-on-nypd-lieutenants-on-brooklyn-bridge-during-protest/]]

• A 39-year-old man died after being hit in the face with a tire swing in Tompkins Square Park. [New York Times[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/17/nyregion/harlem-man-killed-by-tire-swing-in-tompkins-square-park.html?ref=nyregion]]

• The New York premiere of “The Interview” was canceled amid threats of violence from a group of North Korean hackers. The film’s plot follows a C.I.A. plot to assassinate Kim Jong-Un. [Associated Press[http://bigstory.ap.org.proxy.bc.edu/article/78d4601a5847412e8f7badd26df864d2/sony-hackers-make-threats-first-phase-new-leaks]]

• There have been 106 humpback whales spotted around New York this year, more than three times the number that were spotted in 2013. [BBC[http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-30418919] via Gothamist[http://gothamist.com/2014/12/11/whales_take_manhattan.php]]

• Nine of 10 teachers in the city were rated “highly effective” or “effective” in the first year of the state’s new evaluation system. [New York Times[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/17/nyregion/new-york-city-teachers-score-highly-under-new-evaluation-system.html?ref=nyregion]]

• The Fire Department has responded to a record number of calls this year, in part because of the deadly gas explosions in East Harlem. [Capital New York[http://www.capitalnewyork.com/article/city-hall/2014/12/8558682/fdny-has-responded-record-number-calls-year]]

• The R&B singer Ashanti was cross-examined in court by a delusional fan who had already been convicted of stalking her. [New York Times[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/17/nyregion/ashanti-is-cross-examined-by-her-convicted-stalker.html]]

• Scoreboard: Mavericks lick Knicks[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/17/sports/basketball/win-or-lose-for-knicks-the-question-now-is-just-how-theyll-lose.html], 107-87. Heat melt Nets[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/17/sports/basketball/nets-against-heat-in-brooklyn.html], 95-91. Rangers smother Flames[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/17/sports/hockey/nhl-roundup.html], 5-2.

• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Wednesday Briefing[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/17/us/latest-news-mourning-in-pakistan-russian-economy-the-hobbit.html?hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&module=first-column-region®ion=top-news&WT.nav=top-news].

AND FINALLY …

Google has compiled our top searches as New Yorkers in 2014, as Gothamist reports[http://gothamist.com/2014/12/16/what_is_edamame_top_things_new_york.php].

The results recall the things that bound us together this year — in the news and events category, for example, “World Cup Schedule” and “Ebola Symptoms” came in near the top.

The things we most wanted to learn to do — if searches for “how to” are any indication — were “how to harmonize,” “how to focus” and “how to network.”

But those searches could have come from almost anywhere.

Only in New York was the top most searched person Avonte Oquendo[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/22/nyregion/remains-found-in-queens-are-matched-to-missing-autistic-boy.html] — not a celebrity or a politician embroiled in a scandal, but an autistic boy who was found dead in January after he went missing months before.

See Google’s “Year in Search”[http://www-google-com.proxy.bc.edu/trends/2014/] for how the world searched in 2014.

Kenneth Rosen contributed reporting.

New York Today[http://cityroom.blogs.nytimes.com/category/new-york-today/] is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late morning. You can receive it via email[http://www.nytimes.com/marketing/newyorktoday/].

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com[mailto:nytoday@nytimes.com], or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday[https://twitter.com/search?q=%23NYToday&src=hash&mode=realtime].

Follow the New York Today columnists, Annie Correal[https://twitter.com/anniecorreal] and Andy Newman[https://twitter.com/andylocal], on Twitter.

You can always find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com[http://www.nytoday.com/nytoday].

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141217each00105


A
U.N. SECRETARY GENERAL TO VISIT EBOLA-PLAGUED NATIONS
By SOMINI SENGUPTA
54 words
17 December 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
14
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
United Nations Sec Gen Ban Ki-moon is set to announce his visit to Ebola-stricken countries of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone; virus has tested Ban's leadership, as organization has been accused of inadequate response to the outbreak. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141224each00003


The Learning Network
U.S.; Education
Looking Back on 2014 | 15 Ways to Teach and Learn About the Year That Was
By KATHERINE SCHULTEN
1543 words
17 December 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
What were the biggest events of 2014[http://learning.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/12/16/special-news-quiz-farewell-2014/]? How will the year be remembered? What will 2015 be like?

The end of the year is a perfect time to reflect, to predict and to imagine. Below, we offer several ideas for year-end projects you can do in the classroom or on your own, along with videos and retrospectives from both The Times and around the Web to inspire you. We’ll continue to update this post as more are published.

Ideas for Year-End Reflections in the Classroom

1. Take our 2014 News Quiz[http://learning.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/12/16/special-news-quiz-farewell-2014/]. How many can you answer correctly? Which of the stories did you follow most closely? Why?

2. Rap about the news: In partnership with Flocabulary[http://flocabulary.com/], we provide a lesson plan[http://learning.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/12/04/student-contest-write-a-rap-about-the-news-of-2014/#lessonplan] and rubric[http://graphics8.nytimes.com/images/blogs/learning/pdf/2014/nytimesrubric2014.pdf] (PDF) to guide you through the writing process for this annual contest. All entries are due by Jan. 7, 2014 — students should post their raps in the contest comment section[http://learning.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/12/04/student-contest-write-a-rap-about-the-news-of-2014/#comment].

3. List what you’ll remember: What will you remember most from 2014? What were the best and worst things about the year?[http://learning.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/12/17/what-were-the-best-and-worst-things-about-2014/] What national, international, cultural and personal events in 2014 stand out most for you? Why? You might create a list on your own, then share that list in small groups with others. Did any of you list the same events? When you’re done, post a comment to our related Student Opinion question[http://learning.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/12/17/what-were-the-best-and-worst-things-about-2014/].

4. Go back to the future: Write a treatment for, or the first page of, a screenplay or teleplay released 25 years from now, but that is set in 2014. How will the opening scene make it clear to the audience that the setting is 2014? What music, fashions or other visual and aural clues could you use?

5. Define the year: Take a page from our lesson “From ’00 to ’10: Defining the Decade,”[http://learning.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/12/21/from-2000-to-2010-defining-the-decade/] and come up with the defining moments and elements of 2014. What will have lasting impact? In five, 10 or 25 years, what will seem “so 2014″[http://www.buzzfeed.com/abefg/the-most-2013-things-that-ever-happened]?

6. Write a eulogy: The year saw the deaths of many important and famous individuals, such as Maya Angelou and Robin Williams. Visit The Times’s “Notable Deaths of 2014″[http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/obituaries/notable-deaths-2014.html] interactive, and choose someone to research and eulogize. Your class can read the eulogies aloud as a tribute to the end of an era.

7. Say it with images: Look through some of the “Year in Picture” images from around the Web, listed below, and select the image that you think most captures the essence of 2014. Then, write an explanation for why you selected that photo. Together with your classmates, you can create a 2014 gallery.

8. Make a “Best of 2014″ list: Choose the movies, books, songs or other artistic creations from 2014 that deserve to be on your “best of” list, and explain why this art represents the year’s best. For inspiration, you can refer to The Times’s lists of best books, movies and music[http://www.nytimes.com/indexes/2014/12/14/arts/index.html]. This activity might even be more rewarding if done in pairs or groups, since it then requires discussion and negotiating. You might then create a classroom or library display with a sentence or two from students recommending each.

Via Mashable[http://mashable.com/2014/12/15/viral-video-compilation-2014/] | The 233 best viral videos of 2014, in less than seven minutes

9. Create a 2014 time capsule: Think of the stories, images, technology, events and memories that best capture 2014 in your town, school or family for future generations. Then, gather artifacts that somehow memorialize those things, and pack them away in a “time capsule,” like a Tupperware container, shoe box or even empty soda bottle that you can bury in your closet or under your bed (or in the backyard). Pick a date when you want to open the capsule, like 10 or 20 years in the future, and be sure to write an “Open on —” date on the outside to keep yourself honest.

10. Predict 2015: Think about all that has taken place in 2014, and make your predictions for what will happen in 2015 You can choose news events, like the protests related to grand jury decisions in Ferguson[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/25/us/ferguson-darren-wilson-shooting-michael-brown-grand-jury.html] and Staten Island[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/04/nyregion/grand-jury-said-to-bring-no-charges-in-staten-island-chokehold-death-of-eric-garner.html], or like the outbreak of Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html], and predict what, if anything, will happen as a result of them in the coming year. Or, keep your predictions closer to home. What do you think will happen in your life or school in the next 12 months? Write your predictions and seal them in an envelope, and then don’t open them until this time next year. (You might be interested to see the predictions The Futurist magazine made for 2014[http://www.wfs.org/blogs/patrick-tucker/futurist-magazines-top-ten-forecasts-for-2014-and-beyond], or predictions like these[http://www.futuretimeline.net/21stcentury/2015.htm] and these[http://www.thestreet.com/story/12979746/1/apple-watch-soars-twitter-gets-bought-5-tech-predictions-for-2015.html] that a Web search for “predictions 2015″ turn up.)

2014 Year in Review[http://vimeo.com/113985775] from Facebook[http://vimeo.com/theofficialfacebook] on Vimeo[https://vimeo.com].

11. Rethink the past: Choose a watershed year in global or American history and create a retrospective modeled on one or more of the ideas above. Imagine, for instance, the “most searched terms” if Google had existed in 1776, the best viral videos if YouTube had been around in 1969, or a “Words of the Decade” compiled by someone in, say, Elizabethan England.

12. Time travel: Create political cartoons, a list of search terms or a news quiz in advance for the end of 2015 — or 2025, or 2525. What people, places, events and trends will be important then?

13. Resolve: Make a list of New Year’s resolutions for yourself, the country or the fictional or historical figure of your choice.

14. Visualize data: Design an infographic[http://learning.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/04/08/data-visualized-more-on-teaching-with-infographics/] about 2014 in general, or about some aspect of 2014 — whether personal (a collection of illustrated statistics about aspects of your life in 2014?) or academic (the themes of the novels you read in 2014 and their relationships?) or about some aspect of local, national or international news that interests you (most interesting advances in science or technology this year? Worst disasters?).

15. Reflect. Often we feel so busy with homework, school commitments and friends that we don’t make time to reflect on our lives and learning. Think about how 2014 has gone for you. What were your greatest accomplishments, struggles and challenges? What are you most proud of? What do you want to do better? What are you thankful for?[http://learning.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/11/20/what-are-you-thankful-for/] How can you make 2015 an even better year?

New York Times Retrospectives

Interactives and Graphics

2014 The Year in Interactive Storytelling, Graphics and Multimedia[http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/12/29/us/year-in-interactive-storytelling.html]

Upshot Highlights, 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/upshot/upshot-highlights-2014.html]

Photography

The Year in Pictures[http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/12/28/sunday-review/2014-year-in-pictures.html]

Video

Best Times Videos of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/video/best-of-2014/]

Opinion

Notable Opinion Art of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/30/opinion/notable-opinion-art-of-2014.html]

2014: The Year in Questions[http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/12/29/opinion/ben-schott-2014-year-in-questions.html]

Opinion | Is It Bad Enough Yet?[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/opinion/sunday/mark-bittman-is-it-bad-enough-yet.html]

Opinion | Why 2014 Is a Big Deal[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/opinion/sunday/thomas-l-friedman-why-2014-is-a-big-deal.html]

The Public Editor

17 Hopes and Dreams for The Times in the New Year[http://publiceditor.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/12/31/17-hopes-and-dreams-for-the-times-in-the-new-year/]

Style and Dining

The 20 Most Popular Recipes of 2014[http://cooking.nytimes.com/68861692-nyt-cooking/717635-the-20-most-popular-recipes-of-2014]

The Year in Style [http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/12/15/fashion/year-in-fashion-and-style-2014.html]

Test Your Knowledge of the Biggest Style Moments of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/12/08/fashion/year-in-style-quiz.html]

Obituaries

Notable Deaths of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/obituaries/notable-deaths-2014.html]

Books

The 10 Best Books of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/books/review/the-10-best-books-of-2014.html]

100 Notable Books of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/07/books/review/100-notable-books-of-2014.html]

Notable Children’s Books of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/07/books/review/notable-childrens-books-of-2014.html]

Movies

A. O. Scott’s Top 10 Movies of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/movies/a-o-scotts-top-10-movies-2014-boyhood-and-more.html]

Manohla Dargis’s Best Movies of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/movies/manohla-dargiss-best-movies-of-2014-beyond-the-lights-and-more.html]

Stephen Holden’s Best Movies 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/movies/stephen-holdens-best-movies-2014.html]

Music

Jon Pareles’s Favorite Albums and Songs of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/arts/music/jon-pareless-favorite-albums-of-2014.html]

Jon Caramanica’s Top 10 Albums of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/arts/music/jon-caramanica-looks-at-the-albums-of-2014.html]

Ben Ratliff’s Top 10 Albums and Songs of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/arts/music/ben-ratliffs-album-picks-for-2014.html]

Nate Chinen’s Top Albums of 2014, With Beyoncé, Fred Hersch Trio and More[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/arts/music/authoritative-albums-from-beyonc-fred-hersch-trio-and-more.html]

Anthony Tommasini’s 10 Best Classical Music Events of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/arts/music/anthony-tommasinis-10-best-classical-music-events-of-2014.html]

The Funniest Classical Music Performances of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/arts/music/the-funniest-classical-music-performances-of-2014.html]

The Year in Pop[http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/12/19/the-year-in-pop-2014/]

Theater

Ben Brantley’s Best Theater of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/theater/ben-brantleys-best-theater-of-2014-an-octoroon-on-the-town-and-more.html]

Charles Isherwood’s Best Theater of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/theater/charles-isherwoods-best-theater-of-2014-father-comes-home-from-the-wars-and-more.html]

Art

Holland Cotter’s Notable Art Events of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/arts/design/holland-cotters-notable-art-events-of-2014-black-radical-brooklyn-and-more.html]

Roberta Smith’s Top Art Shows of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/arts/design/roberta-smiths-top-art-shows-of-2014-gober-koons-and-more.html]

Television

Alessandra Stanley’s Notable TV Stalwarts of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/arts/television/alessandra-stanleys-notable-tv-stalwarts-of-2014-homeland-the-good-wife-and-more.html]

Mike Hale’s Best TV Shows of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/arts/television/mike-hales-best-tv-shows-of-2014.html]

Dance

The Top Male Dance Performances of 2014[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/arts/dance/alastair-macaulays-top-male-performances-of-2014.html]

A Surprising Year for Female Choreographers[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/arts/dance/a-surprising-year-for-female-choreographers.html]

Sports

The Year’s Stars at Play, in Victory or Defeat[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/26/sports/international/stars-at-play-in-victory-or-defeat.html]

Russia Wasn’t the Only Story in 2014 [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/26/sports/international/top-stories-sports-2014.html]

Looking Ahead to 2015 in Sports[http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/12/17/sports/sports-look-ahead-2015.html]

Retrospectives From Around the Web

The Year in Review

TED | The Year in Ideas[http://yearinideas.ted.com/2014/?gclid=CM_l3puUy8ICFSxk7AodOm8ACw]

The Atlantic | How the World Changed in 2014[http://www.theatlantic.com.proxy.bc.edu/international/archive/2014/12/2014-by-the-numbers-year-review/383953/]

Mashable | 15 Memes that Broke the Internet in 2014[http://mashable.com/2014/12/02/best-memes-2014/]

Vox | DJ Earworm mixes an ode to 2014 pop music[http://www.vox.com/xpress/2014/12/3/7328591/dj-earworm-2014]

Tumblr | Year in Review, 2014[http://yearinreview.tumblr.com/2014]

The Verge | 2014 Year in Review[http://www.theverge.com/2014/12/16/7395527/the-year-in-review-the-biggest-stories-of-2014]

Yahoo | Year in Review[https://www.yahoo.com/tech/tagged/year-in-review]

Mashable | 27 Weirdest News Stories of 2014[http://mashable.com/2014/12/14/weirdest-stories-of-2014/]

Mashable | Big Moments of 2014, Recreated with Play-Doh[http://mashable.com/2014/12/15/2014-play-doh-creations/]

Time | 2014 Person of the Year[http://time.com/topic/person-of-the-year/]

Twitter | 2014[https://2014.twitter.com/]

Slate | The Year of Outrage[http://www.slate.com/articles/life/culturebox/2014/12/the_year_of_outrage_2014_everything_you_were_angry_about_on_social_media.html]

Slate | Our Favorite Memes of 2014[http://www.slate.com/blogs/browbeat/2014/12/18/memes_in_2014_the_best_including_mail_kimp_surfbort_and_lance_stephenson.html]

Spotify | The Year in Music[https://www.spotify-yearinmusic.com/us/]

Longform | Best of 2014[http://longform.org/lists/best-of-2014]

Edutopia | Top 10 Posts for 2014[http://www.edutopia.org/blog/edutopias-top-10-for-2014-betty-ray]

Images of the Year

Time | Top 10 Photos of the Year[http://time.com/3572139/time-top-10-photos-2014/]

Time | Best Photojournalism of 2014[http://time.com/3593169/best-photojournalism-of-2014/]

CNN | The Year in Pictures[http://www.cnn.com/2014/12/05/world/gallery/2014-year-in-pictures/index.html]

The Big Picture | Best Photos of 2014, Part 1[http://www.bostonglobe.com/news/bigpicture]

Wall Street Journal | The Best Pictures of 2014[http://blogs.wsj.com.proxy.bc.edu/photojournal/2014/12/16/the-year-in-photos-wsj-selects-the-best-pictures-of-2014/]

Reuters | Best photos of the year 2014[http://www.reuters.com/news/picture/2014/12/03/best-photos-of-the-year?articleId=USRTR4GLBU]

BBC | Your pictures of the year 2014[http://www.bbc.com/news/in-pictures-30493417]National Geographic | Photo Contest Winners, 2014[http://photography.nationalgeographic.com/photography/photo-contest/2014/]

Mashable | Photos of the Year[http://mashable.com/2014/12/17/best-photos-of-2014/]

Weather.com | Top 100 Photos of 2014[http://www.weather.com/news/news/weathers-top-100-photos-2014]

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141217each001ba


Editorial
Opinion
Mr. Obama’s Historic Move on Cuba
By THE EDITORIAL BOARD
622 words
18 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Following months of secret negotiations with the Cuban government, President Obama on Wednesday announced sweeping changes to normalize relations with Havana, a bold move that ends one of the most misguided chapters in American foreign policy.

The administration’s decision to restore full diplomatic relations, take steps to remove Cuba from the State Department list of countries that sponsor terrorism and roll back restrictions on travel and trade is a change in direction that has been strongly supported by this page. The White House is ushering in a transformational era for millions of Cubans who have suffered as a result of more than 50 years of hostility between the two nations.

Mr. Obama could have taken modest, gradual steps toward a thaw. Instead, he has courageously gone as far as he can, within the constraints of an outmoded 1996 law that imposes stiff sanctions on Cuba in the pursuit of regime change.

“These 50 years have shown that isolation has not worked,” Mr. Obama said. “It’s time for a new approach.”

Cuba’s President, Raúl Castro, deserves credit for his pragmatism. While Cuba remains a repressive police state with a failed economy, since 2008, under his leadership, the country has begun a process of economic reforms that have empowered ordinary Cubans and lifted travel restrictions the government cruelly imposed on its citizens.

“We must learn the art of coexisting with our differences in a civilized manner,” he said on Wednesday.

The changes the Obama administration announced have the potential to empower Cuba’s growing entrepreneurial class by permitting commercial and financial transactions with the United States. The White House also intends to make it easier for American technology companies to upgrade the island’s primitive Internet systems, a step that could go a long way toward strengthening civil society. Given Cuba’s complicated history with the United States, it’s all but certain that this new chapter will include suspicion and backsliding. Leaders in both countries must make every effort to deal with those in a rational, constructive way.

The United States has been right to press for greater personal freedoms and democratic change. But its punitive approach has been overwhelmingly counterproductive. Going forward, Washington’s support for Cuba’s civil society and dissidents is likely to become more effective, in good part because other governments in the Western Hemisphere will no longer be able to treat Cuba as a victim of Washington’s pointlessly harsh policy.

As part of the negotiations, the Cuban government released an unnamed American intelligence agent who had been imprisoned for nearly 20 years and Alan Gross, a 65-year-old American subcontractor who had been imprisoned in Havana since 2009. The United States, meanwhile, released three Cuban spies who have served more than 13 years in prison. The prisoner swap paved the way for a policy overhaul that could become Mr. Obama’s top foreign policy legacy.

Administration officials recognize that Congress is unlikely to take complementary steps toward a healthier relationship with Cuba anytime soon. But this move will inevitably inform the debate about the merits of engagement. In all likelihood, history will prove Mr. Obama right.

Meet The New York Times’s Editorial Board »

* Obama Should End the Embargo on Cuba[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/12/opinion/sunday/end-the-us-embargo-on-cuba.html]

* Still Pondering U.S.-Cuba Relations, Fidel Castro Responds[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/15/opinion/still-pondering-us-cuba-relations-fidel-castro-responds.html]

* Cuba’s Impressive Role on Ebola [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/20/opinion/cubas-impressive-role-on-ebola.html]

* The Shifting Politics of Cuba Policy [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/26/opinion/sunday/the-shifting-politics-of-cuba-policy.html]

* A Prisoner Swap With Cuba [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/03/opinion/a-prisoner-swap-with-cuba.html]

* Alan Gross and the Cuban Five: A Timeline[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/03/opinion/alan-gross-and-the-cuban-five-a-timeline.html]

* In Cuba, Misadventures in Regime Change[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/10/opinion/in-cuba-misadventures-in-regime-change.html]

* A Cuban Brain Drain, Courtesy of the U.S.[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/17/opinion/a-cuban-brain-drain-courtesy-of-us.html]

* Cuba’s Economy at a Crossroads [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/15/opinion/cubas-economy-at-a-crossroads.html]

President Raul Castro addressed Cuba on Wednesday. | Yamil Lage/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141217eaci003y0


Editorial
Opinion
Obama da un paso histórico con Cuba
Por EL COMITÉ EDITORIAL
674 words
18 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Tras meses de negociaciones secretas con el Gobierno cubano, el Presidente Obama anunció el miércoles una extensa serie de cambios para normalizar la relación con La Habana, un paso significativo que marca el fin de uno de los capítulos más desacertados de la política exterior estadounidense.

La decisión de la administración de reanudar relaciones diplomáticas, tomar pasos para retirar a Cuba de la lista de países que apoyan grupos terroristas, y de flexibilizar las restricciones de viaje y comercio, representan un cambio de dirección que este periódico ha apoyado enfáticamente. La Casa Blanca está abriendo una era transformacional para millones de cubanos que han sufrido como resultado de más de medio siglo de hostilidad entre las dos naciones.

Obama pudo haber tomado pasos modestos y graduales para explorar un acercamiento. Sin embargo, actuó con valentía, haciendo todo lo que está a su alcance, mientras sigue en vigor una retrógrada ley aprobada en 1996, que impone estrictas sanciones a la isla en busca de un cambio de régimen.

“Estos 50 años han demostrado que el aislamiento no funciona”, dijo Obama. “Es hora de tener una nueva estrategia”.

El Presidente de Cuba, Raúl Castro, merece reconocimiento por su pragmatismo. Aunque Cuba sigue siendo un estado policial con una economía fallida, desde que asumió el mando del país en 2008, el gobierno ha impulsado una serie de reformas económicas que han empoderado al cubano común y corriente, y suspendió restricciones que cruelmente impedían que muchos cubanos viajaran al exterior.

“Debemos aprender el arte de convivir, de forma civilizada, con nuestras diferencias”, dijo Castro el miércoles.

Los cambios que anunció la administración Obama tienen el potencial de empoderar a el creciente sector empresarial cubano al facilitar transacciones financieras y comerciales con Estados Unidos. La Casa Blanca también tiene previsto tomar medidas para que las empresas de tecnología estadounidenses puedan mejorar la retrógrada infraestructura de Internet en la isla, un paso que podría ayudar a fortalecer la sociedad civil.

Si se toma en cuenta la compleja historia de la relación entre Cuba y Estados Unidos, es muy factible que este nuevo capítulo traiga sospechas y reveses. Los líderes de ambos países deben hacer todo lo posible por manejarlos de manera racional y constructiva.

Estados Unidos ha abogado, con razón, por mayores libertades personales y reformas democráticas en la isla. Pero su estrategia punitiva ha sido bastante contraproducente. De ahora en adelante, el apoyo de Washington a la sociedad civil cubana y a los disidentes en la isla seguramente será más efectivo, en buena medida porque otros gobiernos en el hemisferio no podrán seguir tratando a Cuba como la víctima de una política de Washington excesivamente severa.

Como parte de las negociaciones, el Gobierno cubano liberó a un cubano quien colaboró con las agencias de inteligencia de Estados Unidos, y lleva preso casi 20 años. También puso en libertad a Alan Gross, el subcontratista estadounidense que llevaba más de 5 años preso en La Habana. Por su parte, Estados Unidos repatrió a tres espías cubanos que estuvieron en prisión más de 13 años. El canje ha despejado el camino para un giro de política que podría terminar representando el más importante legado de política exterior para Obama.

Funcionarios de la Casa Blanca reconocen que es poco factible que el Congreso tome pasos complementarios para construir una relación más saludable con Cuba en el futuro cercano. Pero estas medidas inevitablemente informarán el debate sobre lo que se puede lograr forjando lazos. Lo más seguro es que la historia reconozca que Obama acertó.

Leer en inglés (Read in English) »[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/18/opinion/a-new-beginning-with-cuba.html]

* Tiempo de acabar el embargo de Cuba[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/12/opinion/sunday/tiempo-de-acabar-el-embargo-de-cuba.html]

* La impresionante contribución de Cuba en la lucha contra el ébola[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/20/opinion/la-impresionante-contribucin-de-cuba-en-la-lucha-contra-el-bola.html]

* Los cambios electorales respecto a Cuba[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/26/opinion/sunday/los-cambios-electorales-respecto-a-cuba.html]

* Un canje de presos con Cuba[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/03/opinion/un-canje-de-presos-con-cuba.html]

* En Cuba, desventuras al intentar derrocar un régimen[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/10/opinion/en-cuba-desventuras-al-intentar-derrocar-un-rgimen.html]

* La fuga de cerebros en Cuba, cortesía de EE.UU.[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/17/opinion/la-fuga-de-cerebros-en-cuba-cortesa-de-eeuu.html]

* La economía de Cuba en una encrucijada[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/15/opinion/la-economa-de-cuba-en-una-encrucijada.html]

El Presidente Raúl Castro le habla al pueblo. | Yamil Lage/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141218eaci000e5


World Briefing
World; Africa
Agencies Warn of Hunger in Ebola Zone
By RICK GLADSTONE
171 words
18 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] outbreak ravaging West Africa could double the number of people facing hunger in the three worst-affected countries to more than one million by March, two United Nations agencies warned Wednesday. In a joint announcement[http://www.wfp.org/news/news-release/ebola-leaves-hundreds-thousands-facing-hunger-three-worst-hit-countries], the World Food Program and the Food and Agriculture Organization said food shortages caused by crop losses in the three countries, Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, had been exacerbated by border closings, quarantines, hunting bans and other restrictions.

The agencies said that the crisis had already left 230,000 people in Guinea, 170,000 in Liberia and 120,000 in Sierra Leone “severely food insecure,” and that those numbers would double in the next three months “unless access to food is drastically improved and measures are put in place to safeguard crop and livestock production.” The warning came as the World Health Organizationreported[http://www.who.int.proxy.bc.edu/csr/disease/ebola/situation-reports/en/] that the number of Ebola cases in the outbreak totaled 18,603, including 6,915 deaths.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141218eaci00109


A
AGENCIES WARN OF HUNGER IN EBOLA ZONE
By RICK GLADSTONE
44 words
18 December 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
12
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
World Food Program and Food and Agriculture Organization reports Ebola outbreak in West Africa could double people facing hunger in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, to more than one million, by March. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141219eaci00024


Motherlode
U.S.
In an Orphanage, But Not Orphaned, in Sierra Leone
By SUSIE KANTAR
1022 words
18 December 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
I’m sure many of you, like me, read and were moved by the story of Sweetie Sweetie and other children orphaned by Ebola in Sierra Leone ( An Ebola Orphan’s Plea in Africa: ‘Do You Want Me?’ [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/14/world/africa/an-ebola-orphans-plea-in-africa-do-you-want-me.html?_r=0]) Susie Kantor’s essay reminded me that there is more to their stories than we can easily know. — KJ Dell’Antonia

Madonna and Brangelina made it look easy. Go overseas, fall in love with an orphan, bring the child home, and poof, you’re a parent. But when I fell in love with Alhaji, a 5-year-old-boy I met in an orphanage in Sierra Leone, it wasn’t that simple.

I was a newly single 32-year-old living in Los Angeles with plans to move back to New York after my visit to Africa. I always knew I wanted to be a mom, but after years of failed relationships, I felt adoption would be my best bet. I had researched this option extensively with my incredibly supportive parents. “Whatever we can do to help,” they said.

I entered the orphanage with Tiffany, the founder of Shine-On Sierra Leone, an organization where I had been a Goodwill Ambassador for four years. There were 12 orphans of various ages, sitting at three picnic tables, studying by candlelight. I brought stickers and coloring books to hand out. I sat next to Alhaji and showed him the stickers. He had never seen one and wasn’t sure how to use it. Within 20 minutes my face, his face and those of three other children were covered in stickers.

Alhaji sat on my lap, asking me to take pictures of the two of us, fascinated by his immediate image on my pocket-size camera. I studied Alhaji’s face, as if he were an unsolvable riddle. He had big brown eyes that looked as if they had been outlined with eyeliner, a common trait of the Fula tribe. When it was time for us to leave, nearing Alhaji’s bedtime, I kissed him on his sticker-filled cheeks and promised I would be back. Later I asked Tiffany, “Are all of the children up for adoption?”

“Yes, it is possible to adopt,” she said, her smile wide and proud. “Speak with the first lady when we see her tomorrow. If anyone can help, it’s her.”

The next evening, I wore a sundress for the first time in Sierra Leone. The first lady, Sia, was beautiful: tall, large and stoic with a head covering appropriate only for the No. 1 woman in a diamond-mining nation. She thanked us for our work in her hometown of Kono. I nervously asked about the possibility of bringing Alhaji home with me. She said, “I will introduce you to someone in the ministry of adoption at the launch for the Maternal Health Care Program.” Overjoyed, I couldn’t hold back my tears.

The launch was a great success, and during the celebratory lunch I turned to Sia, hoping she remembered my wish. “Is the man from the adoption ministry here?” I asked.

Sia peeked from her head covering and glasses and responded: “Yes! He’s right there.” With a swift hand motion, he was by her side with whispers in his ear. This thin, almost brittle-looking, kind man, slightly slouching, approached me and asked, “How can I help you?”

“Sir, I met a boy at the Grafton Orphanage, and I’d like to take him home with me,” I said.

“Adoption is currently on hold in Sierra Leone,” he said. Pause. “However, due to your relationship with the first lady, I will do everything I can to help and possibly even make an exception. Please get me the boy’s first name, last name and age.”

The next day I quickly threw on clothes, excited to see my future son. We arrived at the orphanage and Alhaji ran to me. I picked him up and spun him around as he laughed like a first-time merry-go-round rider. Was he going to be mine? He wore my sunglasses while we had a short dance party outside. I took down his last name, age and place of birth in preparation to take it to the kind-exception-making-man at the adoption ministry. As I was leaving, a heavy-set woman stared at me. As I came out, glowing with the possibility that I would soon be a mom, I asked her, “Do you work here?”

“I mama Alhaji.”

“I’m sorry. I couldn’t understand.”

“I mama Alhaji. Alhaji my son.”

I was frozen.

There must have been a mistake. I misunderstood. I couldn’t see as I made it down the hill to the car where Tiffany was waiting for me. I demanded she call the head of the orphanage to ask if Alhaji had a mother. I could hear him through Tiffany’s prepaid cellphone: “Yes. He’s the only child there with a mom. She can’t afford to care for him on her own so he stays with us and she visits often.”

We drove to a village and no song on the radio or words of love from my friend made sense. The only child with a mom. Why was I was led to this place only to leave more lonely? I felt even more childless, as if I had failed at becoming a parent.

I decided not to stay in contact with Alhaji. He had a mother who loved him, and it would be unfair for me to interfere. Alhaji wasn’t rightfully mine. His mother had waited for me outside the bathroom to let me know he was rightfully hers. In retrospect, maybe I wasn’t ready to be a parent, and Alhaji was exactly where he needed to be.

Like what you’re reading? Get the best of Motherlode articles, links, comments and conversation, along with previews of posts to come, delivered each week to your inbox. Sign up here [http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/motherlode/].

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141218eaci002uv


Op-Ed Contributor
Opinion
Sleepwalking as Nukes Spread
By JANE HARMAN
853 words
19 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
WASHINGTON — The recent failure to reach a nuclear accord with Iran was apparently a one-day story, rapidly eclipsed by Ferguson, Eric Garner, and sexual assault allegations against Bill Cosby. As a recovering politician — an escapee from the Congressional asylum — I know how hard it can be to break out of the news cycle. Some stories have legs. Some don’t.

The news media long ago decided on the marquee headlines for 2014: the Islamic State, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, Ukraine, Ebola. Underreported stories compete for whatever oxygen’s left. And with even the Iranian nuclear talks struggling to hold the spotlight for long, broader nuclear security issues have dropped off the public radar entirely. That’s dangerous in the extreme. With loose nukes in Pakistan, loose material worldwide, and nuclear fumbling here at home, we have to have our eye on every proliferation risk. No one wants a mushroom cloud on tomorrow’s front page; to counter these threats, we must multitask more effectively.

In 2011 in The Atlantic, Jeffrey Goldberg and Marc Ambinder wrote just about the most frightening sentence I’ve ever read: “In a country that is home to the harshest variants of Muslim fundamentalism, and to the headquarters of the organizations that espouse these extremist ideologies,” they wrote, “nuclear bombs capable of destroying entire cities are transported in delivery vans on congested and dangerous roads.” That’s right: Pakistan uses delivery vans, as secure as the ones you and I might use to move furniture, to move its nuclear arsenal. This in a country where the Taliban routinely assaults hardened facilities with great success, where Al Qaeda feels entirely at home, and where the Islamic State was recently embraced by six senior Taliban commanders.

In addition to the risk that nuclear material or weapons might fall into terrorist hands, there’s always the very real possibility that Pakistan will transfer a tactical nuke or worse to another state. Saudi Arabia, the BBC reported in 2013, feels confident that it will be able to acquire a weapon from Pakistan should Iran go nuclear — one more piece of evidence that even in discussions of Iran’s nuclear program, an Iran-only focus is dangerously myopic. And remember, the Pakistani nuclear scientist A.Q. Khan was instrumental in getting Iran’s program off the ground in the first place.

While the progress made worldwide since President Obama acted as host to the first Nuclear Security Summit in 2010 is impressive, don’t forget that participating countries vowed to secure weapons-grade materials by this year. No such luck — and when it comes to radioactive materials, every pound counts. Meanwhile, Russia has suspended longstanding and successful cooperation with the United States in securing Russian nuclear sites; its president, Vladimir V. Putin, plans to skip out on the next nuclear security summit too, his absence another casualty of the Ukraine crisis. On nukes, the trend line for political will worldwide is not encouraging.

Nuclear security — in any context but the ongoing negotiations with Iran — has been thrown onto the pile of forgotten causes. One reason, probably, is the poor example set by our own nuclear forces. As a pair of scathing Pentagon studies recently found, we have 60-year-old missile silos with blast doors that don’t close. We have crews servicing intercontinental ballistic missiles with one wrench — one! — able to join warheads with their missiles, a wrench they share with one another via FedEx. Professionalism this is not.

The president has backed a serious, comprehensive, and vastly expensive effort to modernize American nuclear forces. Besides the price tag, there’s a big problem: The overhaul will take three decades. As a former member of Congress who knows what election cycles can do to sound budget thinking, I have a hard time trusting in our government’s ability to follow through on a 30-year plan. While President Obama deserves a great deal of praise for his longstanding and continuing work on nonproliferation, his administration has a hard time multitasking. Congress, with toxic partisanship raging and an incredibly full plate for the months ahead, is unlikely to be helpful.

By March at the very latest, when a broad-strokes political agreement on Iran’s nuclear program is due, Washington’s attention will turn back to nonproliferation. But that’s risky. Terrorism via weapons of mass destruction, Pakistan’s irresponsibility, Russia’s temper tantrums, the future of our own nuclear arsenal — all of these concerns should be on the table and in the media spotlight now. The dates baked into extended negotiations with Iran should be occasions for a broader conversation. A gap in committed attention and long-term thinking leaves the work of nuclear security dangerously unfinished.

The age of the atom is far from over. On nukes, let’s learn to walk and chew gum.

Jane Harman is the director, president and chief executive of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. She was a Democratic representative from California from 1993 to 1999 and again from 2001 to 2011.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141218eacj002e5


Medical Paradox
The Upshot
Can Cuba Escape Poverty but Stay Healthy?
By MARGOT SANGER-KATZ
840 words
19 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Cuba[http://www.nytimes.com/info/cuba?inline=nyt-geo] has many economic problems, including the inefficiencies of central planning and the long trade embargo with the United States. Yet the country has a thriving public health system that has made its population among the healthiest in the world.

Researchers call it the Cuban Health Paradox[http://www-ncbi-nlm-nih-gov.proxy.bc.edu/pubmed/15134135]. The country’s economic isolation has left it poor, but people there live as long as their counterparts in much richer countries. According to data from the World Bank, life expectancy for someone born in Cuba in 2011 was 79 years, just a little longer than that of an infant born in the United States the same year. But the United States economy is more than eight times larger, per person, than Cuba’s. Meanwhile, in countries like Iraq and Belarus, where, like Cuba, the economy produces about $6,000 annually per person, the life expectancies are more than eight years shorter.

Cuba stands out in other measures of healthiness. The low percentage of children who die before the age of 5[http://www-ncbi-nlm-nih-gov.proxy.bc.edu/pmc/articles/PMC2645168/figure/FG1b/] is similarly unusual, especially in the Americas[http://www-ncbi-nlm-nih-gov.proxy.bc.edu/pmc/articles/PMC2645168/figure/FG2b/]. For the size of its economy, Cuba does a remarkable job of keeping its children healthy.

“I am often asked why is this poor country so healthy, but you also have to ask why is this healthy country so poor?” said Jerry Spiegel, a professor at the University of British Columbia’s School of Population and Public Health, who has studied the Cuban health system for more than 15 years.

Many important drugs are either unavailable in Cuba or so expensive that they are impractical. Specialized medical care is limited. Even basic supplies, like the chlorine used as a disinfectant, can be hard to come by. There was a time when anesthesia[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/health/diseasesconditionsandhealthtopics/anesthesiaandanesthetics/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] was so scarce that surgeons used acupuncture[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/health/diseasesconditionsandhealthtopics/acupuncture/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] to control patients’ pain during operations.

But the country has invested heavily in primary care and public health measures. It has an unusually high number of doctors[http://www-ncbi-nlm-nih-gov.proxy.bc.edu/pmc/articles/PMC2645168/figure/FG3a/], and the government uses central planning to ensure that they are spread evenly across the country. The bulk of health care is government-financed, which means that nearly every Cuban has equal access to the same health care system. The country has one of the highest childhood vaccination rates[http://www.nejm.org.proxy.bc.edu/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMp1215226] in the world. And Cuba has for decades sent doctors to help with health crises around the world, including the current Ebola[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/worldviews/wp/2014/10/04/in-the-medical-response-to-ebola-cuba-is-punching-far-above-its-weight/] outbreak in Africa.

The Communist government has focused efforts on ensuring access to public education, housing and nutrition — investments that health researchers say can be as important to health as medicine and doctors. Mr. Spiegel said that he had observed an unusual coordination of government functions related to health. When the country was experiencing an outbreak of dengue fever[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/dengue-fever/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] in the 1990s, he said, public officials treated and isolated patients, but also cleaned up the places where mosquitoes that spread the disease were breeding.

The result: Cuba’s citizens are much more likely to die from the maladies that kill rich people — cancer[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/cancer/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] and heart disease — than the communicable diseases that kill in most poor places.

Researchers like to study[http://www-ncbi-nlm-nih-gov.proxy.bc.edu/pmc/articles/PMC2645168/#R7] the Cuban system because it may hold lessons about[http://ije.oxfordjournals.org.proxy.bc.edu/content/35/4/817.long] how to keep a country healthy. Historically, the health of a country’s population has been correlated with its overall wealth. But in recent history, that tight relationship has started to break down. Many countries that are much richer than Cuba are no healthier. And countries with similar wealth have life expectancies more than 25 years lower. Researchers may also want to look at countries that are like Cuba in terms of health and wealth — other poor countries with paradoxically high life expectancies include Lebanon and Albania.

In some ways, Cuba’s health care system may benefit from its relative isolation. In many developing countries with economies the size of Cuba’s, doctors and other medical professionals leave to live and work in the United States. Cuba has suffered no such brain drain. Though the country is poor, its wealth is more evenly distributed than in other poor countries.

Mr. Spiegel said that the country’s economic isolation may have other advantages, too: The country has become much more self-reliant, he said, and has invested in its own biomedical research. Those are all features that may change if the United States allows the country to open up to more liberal trade and immigration policies. However, the changes are also likely to bring improved wealth and more advanced medical technologies, which may help the country grow even healthier.

The Upshot[http://www.nytimes.com/upshot/] provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and everyday life. Follow us on Facebook[https://www.facebook.com/upshot] and Twitter[http://twitter.com/UpshotNYT]. Sign up for our weekly newsletter here.[http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/upshot/]

* U.S. to Restore Full Relations With Cuba, Erasing a Last Trace of Cold War Hostility[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/18/world/americas/us-cuba-relations.html]

* One Big Risk for Cuba-U.S. Relations: Moving Too Fast[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/18/upshot/one-big-risk-for-cuba-us-relations-may-be-moving-too-fast.html]

Dr. Neobalis Franco preparing an injection  for a diabetes patient at the Salvador Allende hospital in Havana in 2007. | Claudia Daut/Reuters

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141218eacj002ut


First Draft
‘America’s Resurgence Is Real’
MARK LANDLER
93 words
19 December 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
In his opening remarks for his year-end news conference, President Obama claimed American leadership overseas on several fronts: the campaign against the Islamic State, the response to Russian aggression in Ukraine, the effort to stem the Ebola outbreak and the historic opening to Cuba.

“Take any metric you want: America’s resurgence is real,” he said.

Mr. Obama also noted that the United States had put more people back to work than every other advanced economy in the world, combined.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141219eacj002bm


A
LIBERIA WILL PROCEED WITH SENATE VOTE DELAYED BY EBOLA
By CLAIR MACDOUGALL
55 words
19 December 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
10
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Liberia will finally hold Senate elections delayed because of Ebola epidemic, legal challenges and ban on large political gatherings; elections must be held, otherwise the nine-year terms of half the members in 30-seat Senate will expire with no successors. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141220eacj0006k


Foreign Desk; SECTA
Liberia Will Proceed With Senate Vote Delayed by Ebola
By CLAIR MacDOUGALL
658 words
19 December 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
10
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
MONROVIA, Liberia -- Senate elections that were repeatedly delayed because of the Ebola epidemic and legal challenges, and further complicated by a presidential ban on large political gatherings in the capital, will finally be held in Liberia on Saturday. Whether they will be fair, peaceful and safe is unclear.

President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf has said the elections, first scheduled more than two months ago but postponed twice, must be held, otherwise the nine-year terms of half the members in the 30-seat Senate will expire with no successors, provoking a constitutional crisis. Critics have said mass gatherings at the polls raise the risk of more contagion that would aggravate the Ebola crisis, which had shown signs of easing in this country of four million.

Last Saturday, the Supreme Court agreed with Ms. Johnson Sirleaf, saying it would not halt the vote. ''It is not our place to decide whether it is appropriate to conduct elections at this time or any other time,'' said the chief justice, Francis S. Korkpor.

The elections are not only seen as a test of whether Liberia, one of the three worst-hit West African countries in the Ebola epidemic, can conduct the voting without inadvertently spreading an insidious disease. They are also seen as a barometer of Ms. Johnson Sirleaf's popularity. The most hotly contested Senate seat pits her son, Robert, against George Manneh Weah, a former soccer star and presidential aspirant. The seat represents the capital region, where nearly half the country's people live.

Clashes have broken out between supporters of Mr. Sirleaf and Mr. Weah in recent weeks, and the National Elections Commission has expressed concern about the possibility of violence in the lead-up to the vote. Ms. Johnson Sirleaf banned campaigning in the capital, ostensibly to limit the possibility of further Ebola contagion. But her order only raised suspicions that she was trying to tip the scales in favor of her son.

''We are concerned about how effective and how transparent these elections will be,'' said Oscar Bloh, the executive director of Search for Common Ground, an organization that will deploy 2,000 domestic monitors.

In another reflection of concern about the integrity of the voting, international organizations including the United Nations Mission in Liberia and the African Union issued a joint statement on Tuesday ''calling on all stakeholders to help ensure all eligible Liberians are able to participate freely and safely.''

Liberia had been the country worst hit by the Ebola virus until recent weeks, when the rate of new cases and deaths appeared to slow, while in neighboring Sierra Leone, cases and deaths accelerated. Liberia still has the most Ebola deaths, 3,290, according to the latest World Health Organization data posted on Wednesday, but Sierra Leone now has the most cases, 8,356.

Special precautions will be enforced at polling stations to minimize the risk of Ebola infections, which are spread through physical contact. Voters must keep a distance of three feet from one another, chlorine hand-washing stations will be set up, and many voters will have their fingers swabbed with blue ink, rather than rolled across an inkpad.

The delayed vote appears to have hardened cynicism among young Liberians, who make up a large part of the population. Despite some excitement that Mr. Weah could defeat Mr. Sirleaf, who is seen as a child of privilege, some voters view all candidates with suspicion.

''They are not in the young people's interest,'' said Siegar Zeogar, 20, an apprentice electrician who shares a room in a Monrovia slum with six others.

''They are taking things for their own people. They are doing things for themselves,'' he said. ''Even this Ebola that is going on -- they have their children overseas, while our schools are closed. Their children will go and come back tomorrow and rule us in this country.''

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141219eacj0005t


Contributing Op-Ed Writer
Opinion
Obama Unbound
By TIMOTHY EGAN
837 words
20 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
There may not be a lightness to his step, a lilt in his voice or a bit of jauntiness returned to his manner. The office ages everyone prematurely, and makes spontaneity all but impossible. But President Obama is acting like a man who’s been given the political equivalent of a testosterone boost.

Perhaps the best thing to happen to him was the crushing blow his party took in the midterm elections. Come January, Republicans will have their largest House majority in 84 years — since Herbert Hoover was president. Granted, no politician wants to join Hoover and history in the same sentence. But Obama is not cowering or conceding. He’s been liberated by defeat, becoming the president that many of his supporters hoped he would be.

He promised to be transformative. Instead, especially in the last two years, he’s been listless, passive, a spectator to his own presidency. Rather than setting things in motion, he reacted to events. Even Ebola, the great scare that prompted so much media hysteria it was awarded Lie of the Year by PolitiFact, was somehow his fault. No more. Of late, the president who has nothing to lose has discovered that his best friend is the future.

On normalizing relations with Cuba, on a surprising climate change initiative with China, on an immigration gamble that’s working, and executive orders to protect the world’s greatest wild salmon fishery in Alaska or try to root out gender pay disparities, Obama is marching ahead of politicians fighting yesterday’s wars. In setting an aggressive agenda, he has forced opponents to defend old-century policies, and rely on an aging base to do it.

Are Republicans really going to spend the first year of their new majority trying to undo everything the president has done — to roll back the clock? Will they defend isolation of Cuba against the wishes of most young Cuban-Americans? Will they restore a family-destroying deportation policy, when Obama’s de-emphasis on sending illegal immigrants home has already given him a 15-point boost among Latinos? Will they take away health insurance from millions who never had it before? Will they insist that nothing can be done on climate change, while an agreement is on the table for the world’s two biggest polluters, the United States and China, to do something significant?

The President Obama of the last six weeks is willing to take that bet. The tediously cautious, adrift president who governed before his party was rejected in November never would have.

Of course, it helps to have the wind at his back — gusts of good news.

Remember when Mitt Romney promised to bring unemployment down to 6 percent by the end of his first term? Obama has done him one better: two years ahead of schedule, unemployment is 5.8 percent. The economy added 321,000 jobs last month and average hourly wages actually rose, on pace to make 2014 the best year for financially battered Americans in almost a decade. And if there’s a Republican somewhere who predicted that gas prices would be well below $3 a gallon in year six of the Obama presidency, bring that prescient pol forward.

Remember, also, the man-crush that Republicans had on Vladimir Putin? Ohhh, Vlad — such a leader! Forceful, militarily aggressive, a manly man. Obama the plodder was getting played by Putin the Great. Now, the Russian president better keep his shirt on, for his country is teetering, increasingly isolated, its currency in free fall. Plunging oil prices have shown just how fragile a nation dependent on oil can be.

And speaking of oil, the incoming Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell has vowed, as one of his first orders of business, to push forward Keystone XL, the proposed pipeline to move Canada’s dirty oil though the American heartland. There’s one problem: With low energy prices, the pipeline may no longer pencil out. It’s a bust, potentially, in a free market awash with cheap oil.

With the Cuba opening, one of those events that seem obvious to all the minute it takes shape, the president has Pope Francis as a diplomatic co-conspirator. This leaves Republican opponents of fresh air in Havana lecturing the most popular man on the planet. Even after that all-dogs-go-to-heaven thing turned out to be something that was lost in translation, the pope’s blessing of the Cuba initiative will beat hot air from a half-dozen senators.

Obama’s trademark caution in a crisis still serves him well. He kept his head during the Ebola meltdown when everyone else was losing theirs. Had we gone jaw to jaw with Putin over Ukraine, rather than building the case for sanctions, the world would be far messier. But in finally learning how to use the tools of his office, Obama unbound is a president primed to make his mark.

Gail Collins is off today.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141219eack00567


U.S.; Politics
Obama Defends Actions on Cuba and Promises Some Compromise With Congress
By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS
1160 words
20 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
WASHINGTON — President Obama[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/o/barack_obama/index.html?inline=nyt-per] on Friday rejected criticism that he should not have reopened American relations with Cuba because of the nation’s human rights record, saying the historic thaw would give the United States more sway over the Cuban government.

“I share the concerns of dissidents there and human rights activists that this is still a regime that represses its people,” Mr. Obama said at a wide-ranging news conference after a period of extraordinary domestic and foreign policy changes at the White House.

But even as he acknowledged that Cuba might take actions the United States opposes, Mr. Obama said, “The whole point of normalizing relations is that it gives us a greater opportunity to have influence with that government.”

“Change is going to come to Cuba,” he said. “It has to.”

It was the first time Mr. Obama had taken questions from reporters since his announcement on Wednesday[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/18/world/americas/us-cuba-relations.html] that he would move to normalize relations with Cuba, establishing an embassy in Havana and relaxing trade and financial restrictions that have been in place for a half-century.

He also scolded Sony Pictures for pulling back[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/18/business/sony-the-interview-threats.html] the movie “The Interview” after a cyberattack for which the White House is blaming North Korea[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/18/world/asia/us-links-north-korea-to-sony-hacking.html]. “I think they made a mistake,” he said.

As in previous years, the president used his annual late-December news conference to make the case that his policies had helped the economy and burnished the United States’ reputation around the world. “We’ve set the stage for this American moment,” he said, “and I’m going to spend every minute of my last two years making sure that we seize it.”

Mr. Obama was upbeat in the nearly hourlong exchange with reporters, his last public event before departing Friday for a vacation with his family in Hawaii.

He said he had shown that he could tackle steep challenges, including the fight against the Islamic State militant group, the Ebola outbreak in West Africa and a mass migration of unaccompanied minors from Central America across the border.

Mr. Obama vowed to seek compromise with Republicans in Congress where possible, such as on a tax overhaul and rebuilding infrastructure, but pledged to veto efforts to roll back his health care law[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/health/diseasesconditionsandhealthtopics/health_insurance_and_managed_care/health_care_reform/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] and financial regulations[http://topics.nytimes.com/topics/reference/timestopics/subjects/c/credit_crisis/financial_regulatory_reform/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier].

He also indicated that he had no intention of pulling back on his executive measures to circumvent Congress, which he has used in recent weeks to take sweeping unilateral action on immigration[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/21/us/obama-immigration-speech.html], re-establish diplomatic and commercial ties with Cuba and strike a climate agreement[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/12/world/asia/china-us-xi-obama-apec.html] with China.

“I intend to continue to do what I’ve been doing,” he said, “which is where I see a big problem and the opportunity to help the American people, and it is within my lawful authority to provide that help, I’m going to do it.”

Still, the president acknowledged that he would have to work with Congress on contentious issues, including lifting the 54-year-old American trade embargo against Cuba. “We cannot unilaterally bring down the embargo,” he said, although his administration is undertaking a major effort to loosen key elements.

“Ultimately, we need to go ahead and pull down the embargo, which I think has been self-defeating in advancing the aims that we’re interested in,” he said. “But I don’t anticipate that that happens right away.”

While he said he had no plans to visit Cuba in the near term, he recounted friendly moments during a telephone call this week with President Raúl Castro. He said the two had joked about being long-winded and about Fidel Castro, Raúl’s brother.

After Mr. Obama apologized for speaking for so long during the call, he said, Mr. Castro told him, “You’re still a young man, and you have still the chance to break Fidel’s record: He once spoke seven hours straight.”

Then, Mr. Obama added, the Cuban president proceeded to speak for twice as long as he had.

Closer to home, Mr. Obama told reporters he was eager to compromise with the new Republican-controlled Congress, including on revamping the nation’s tax system, which he said he would push to make simpler and fairer.

“I want to work with this new Congress to get things done,” the president said. “We’re going to disagree on some things, but there are going to be areas of agreement, and we’ve got to be able to make that happen, and that’s going to involve compromise once in a while.”

Mr. Obama said he would push to change rules that allow “corporate inversions,” when American companies move their headquarters “on paper” to another country in order to avoid taxes.

He reminded Republicans that they would also have to consider his priorities. “In order for their initiatives to become law, I’m going to have to sign off,” he said, “and that means they have to take into account the issues that I care about, just as I’m going to take into account the issues that they care about.”

Mr. Obama refused to say what he would do if Congress tried to force his hand on approving the Keystone XL[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/k/keystone_pipeline/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] pipeline, saying only, “I’ll see what they do.”

But he played down the advantages of the pipeline and said he wanted to make sure it would not accelerate climate change.

“There’s been this tendency to really hype this thing as some magic formula to what ails the U.S. economy, and it’s hard to see on paper where exactly they’re getting that information,” he said.

Mr. Obama said he would seek to carry out quickly the recommendations of a task force he named this week on law enforcement and race relations, some of them by executive order and some by legislation.

The public conversation set off by the deaths of unarmed black men at the hands of white police officers in places like Ferguson, Mo., and Staten Island is healthy, he said, adding that he was willing to take on big problems.

“My presidency is entering the fourth quarter,” Mr. Obama said. “Interesting stuff happens in the fourth quarter, and I’m looking forward to it.”

Michael D. Shear and Peter Baker contributed reporting.

* Obama Vows U.S. Response to North Korea Cyberattack on Sony[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/20/world/fbi-accuses-north-korean-government-in-cyberattack-on-sony-pictures.html]

* Cuba Thaw Lets Rest of Latin America Warm to Washington[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/19/world/americas/a-brave-move-by-obama-removes-a-wedge-in-relations-with-latin-america.html]

* Obama Intends to Lift Several Restrictions Against Cuba on His Own[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/19/us/politics/obama-intends-to-lift-several-restrictions-against-cuba-on-his-own.html]

* For Obama, More Audacity and Fulfillment of Languishing Promises[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/18/us/politics/cuba-action-is-obamas-latest-step-away-from-a-cautious-approach.html]

* U.S. Said to Find North Korea Ordered Cyberattack on Sony[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/18/world/asia/us-links-north-korea-to-sony-hacking.html]

President Obama on Friday said his decision to restore full diplomatic relations with Cuba creates an opportunity for change. | AP | At his end-of-year news conference, President Obama talked about his executive action on immigration and his hopes that Congress will work with him to pass a variety of bills. | Associated Press

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141219eack003pd


Dispatch
Sunday Review
Ebola Should Be Easy to Treat
By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN
1388 words
21 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
FREETOWN, Sierra Leone — NOT even 30 minutes away from the little house where I watched a girl die from Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] sat the clinic she had been so desperate to reach. It was a modest compound, of simple rooms lined with iron cots. I didn’t see any blinking computer screens or machines that beeped. It looked more like a high school nurse’s office than an I.C.U.

In one room, nurses were quietly putting pills on little squares of paper.

“What are those?” I asked.

“That’s medicine for Ebola patients,” explained a Sierra Leonean doctor.

I checked the boxes: acetaminophen, ciprofloxacin, some oral rehydration salts — all available at the smallest pharmacies, even here. I was stunned.

“That’s it?” I asked.

“Yeah,” the doctor said. “That’s it. Maybe an IV for the really bad cases.”

I’ve covered a lot of disasters in Africa — famines, civil wars, warlords on the rampage, all the nasty things that many people associate with the poorest continent on earth. We’re used to seeing shots of Africans dead on a red dirt road with a white United Nations helicopter chugging above.

Maybe Ebola looks like that from a distance. But up close it’s different. What I learned this past month reporting in Sierra Leone[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/sierraleone/index.html?inline=nyt-geo] is that this is one crisis that should be relatively easy to solve.

Ebola, however much some of its symptoms conjure up a horror film, is usually shockingly simple to treat. The virus is swift and ruthless, hideous and creepy, causing some patients to have bloody vomit, bloody diarrhea[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/symptoms/diarrhea/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] or even — in severe cases — bloody eyeballs. Ebola is one of the handful of viruses than can trigger a hemorrhagic fever, with internal bleeding, but in most cases the biggest threat is dehydration, which can be addressed by clean water and basic drugs.

As Daniel Bausch, an infectious disease doctor at Tulane University, has said, “It’s not rocket science” — Ebola is as much about logistics as medicine. The key to defeating it is enough ambulances, enough hospital beds and a competent way to identify sick people, get them into care quickly before they infect others and then replenish the fluids they lose because of the virus.

This stands in stark contrast to the Somali famine, the endless wars in the Democratic Republic of Congo or South Sudan’s recent implosion — all extremely complex crises fueled by decades of reckless policies, regional intrigue and serious money to be made from chaos.

The fact that Ebola can be battled back so easily is what makes it so frustrating and depressing — and even at times maddening. I learned that my first day. I was driving through a village, looking for Ebola victims to profile (as journalists do in these circumstances), when some community volunteers waved me over to a small house with a rusted roof.

A family was assembled on the porch, and Isatu Sesay, a 16-year-old girl in a V-neck sweater, was sitting in a chair, looking woozy.

“She’s been vomiting[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/symptoms/nausea-and-vomiting/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] all day,” her mother said. “She has diarrhea. She has fever[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/symptoms/fever/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier]. We keep waiting for an ambulance, but the ambulance don’t come.”

I glanced at my colleagues, who had been covering Ebola for months.

“What about giving her a ride?” I asked.

“No way,” they answered.

It would be extremely dangerous; she was clearly infectious and we might easily contract the disease.

Jaime, the translator, pulled me aside.

“Don’t get too emotional,” he warned. “The slightest mistake you do could be the biggest mistake you’ll ever make.”

It was quiet on the ride back to our hotel. In the streets of Freetown, Sierra Leone’s capital, people hauled tubs of soda, sacks of cement, bananas, melons, trousers, plastic pipes — an entire economy carried on the tops of heads.

It may be hard, thousands of miles away, to appreciate just how broken these places are. But Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone — the West African Ebola triumvirate — with 18,000 cases among them, are among the world’s least developed nations, definitely a factor in this Ebola crisis, though I am suspicious of making it too big of one. Other West African countries, like Mali, also very poor, and Nigeria, now being called “Africa’s Afghanistan” because of the intensity of its Islamist insurgency, wrapped up their Ebola outbreaks in a matter of weeks, with few deaths, showing it can be done.

The next day, when I drove back to the village, Isatu had descended to a different state. She was flat on her back, delirious, stains of dried black vomit on her jeans. The virus was gnawing through her. Her eyes were bolted open, as if something huge and monstrous were coming right at her.

Neighbors kept calling the Ebola hotline. No response. I couldn’t believe it, so I called myself.

“Good morning, Ebola response center,” said a cheery voice.

I provided Isatu’s name, address, age and symptoms.

“This is very urgent,” I added. “Do you have many cases like this?”

“O.K., sir, O.K.,” the operator replied.

Click.

Isatu was dead by sundown.

She was buried in a plastic sack in a shallow grave in a crowded graveyard.

As I watched, my guilt made me nauseated. It wasn’t simply that I hadn’t given her a ride. Had I been thinking straight, I could have at least run out to a local drugstore and bought some medicine to boost her survival chances until an ambulance arrived. It would have been so easy.

In so many stories I’ve covered about people in need, I struggle with when to step back, when to help out, how to be a so-called impartial observer, as I’m paid to be, but at the same time remain a decent human being. Here I failed.

The ambulance never came, I later found out, because some health workers went on strike that week for lack of pay. But even that didn’t make sense. The United States and other countries have injected hundreds of millions of dollars into the Ebola fight; every day, it seemed, another planeload of international experts arrived — Chinese epidemiologists, Cuban nurses, American microbiologists, British engineers. I kept hearing from aid workers that maybe this was the problem: Sierra Leone now had too many experts, too many sources of differing advice.

“It’s madness,” said Peter Simpson, a British paramedic operations manager who was recently in Sierra Leone. “You have 44 NGOs here and they’re all working in their silos.”

Mr. Simpson seemed to have an uncommon amount of common sense. When I spoke to him last, in mid-December, he was cooking up a plan to turn Freetown’s soccer stadium into a giant Ebola clinic because six months into its epidemic, Sierra Leone still doesn’t have enough hospital beds.

“WHY aren’t they using the biggest building in Sierra Leone?” he vented. “It’s got running water, flood lights, you could have 500 beds there in less than a month.” Until then, he said, “you give people anti-malarials, O.R.S.,” or oral rehydration salts, “bananas for fluid, the basics.”

I thought back to Isatu — all the frustrations, helplessness and anger I’d felt in Sierra Leone had been present in her, my first case. More than 6,000 people have died, but she was the one I won’t be able to forget. I unloaded my guilt on an editor in New York who offered a wise solution: Buy a bag of medicine and keep it in the car, just in case, which we did.

But we never found another Isatu. We found very sick people and people who had been successfully treated but no one in that feverish limbo Isatu had been in when she was calling for help.

The night I left, I grabbed my suitcase out of the back of our car. The bag of medicine was still there, untouched.

Jeffrey Gettleman is the East Africa bureau chief for The New York Times, who is currently writing a memoir.

Isatu Sesay, 16, died of Ebola while her family waited in vain for an ambulance. | Daniel Berehulak for The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141220eacl002xv


Editorial
Opinion
La evolución del movimiento gay en Cuba
Por EL COMITÉ EDITORIAL
1404 words
21 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
En Cuba, históricamente las marchas han sido eventos orquestados por el gobierno o protestas de disidentes, que las autoridades suelen suprimir con rapidez. Así que llamó mucho la atención cuando, en mayo de 2007, la sobrina de Fidel Castro salió a la calle con un pequeño ejército de travestis, armado con banderas de orgullo gay.

Años antes de que la administración Obama anunciara un dramático giro en su política respecto a Cuba el miércoles, al afirmar que aislar a la isla ha sido una estrategia fallida, un par de gobiernos cercanos a Estados Unidos vieron la posibilidad de mejorar la vida de las personas gay en Cuba, aunque ello conllevara trabajar con un prominente miembro de la familia Castro.

La primera celebración en La Habana por el Día Internacional Contra la Homofobia y la Transfobia marcó el comienzo de una extraordinaria evolución de los derechos de minorías sexuales en la isla más poblada del Caribe, una región donde las actitudes hostiles contra las personas homosexuales siguen siendo la norma.

Mariela Castro, la hija de Raúl Castro, el Presidente de Cuba, ha estado en la vanguardia de cambios legislativos y sociales que han convertido a la comunidad gay en un segmento de la población más visible y empoderada. En este proceso, ha propiciado una apertura inusual para la sociedad civil en un país autoritario donde los movimientos de base no suelen lograr mucho. Algunos diplomáticos en La Habana ven el progreso que se ha hecho en el ámbito gay como un potencial modelo para expandir otro tipo de derechos civiles, en una de las sociedades más reprimidas del mundo.

Los Gobiernos de Noruega y Bélgica han brindado apoyo financiero a la organización que lidera Castro, el Centro Nacional de Educación Sexual. Son contribuciones que demuestran lo que se puede lograr si se respaldan ciertas políticas de un gobierno que Estados Unidos y varios países europeos han mantenido aislado, a raíz de su deplorable historial en cuanto a derechos humanos. A medida que la administración Obama comience a implementar las nuevas políticas respecto a Cuba, es mucho lo que puede aprender de los países que optaron por forjar lazos.

“Está bien criticar, pero también hay que reconocer que han hecho cosas buenas”, dijo John Petter Opdahl, embajador noruego en La Habana, en una entrevista reciente. Opdahl, quien es gay, dijo que su gobierno ha contribuido con $230,000 a la organización de Castro durante los últimos dos años. “Ella ha abolido buena parte del estigma para mucha gente en el país y le ha mejorado mucho la vida a tanta gente, no solo en La Habana, sino también en las provincias”.

El Gobierno de Fidel Castro condenó al ostracismo a las minorías sexuales durante los años sesenta y setenta, enviando a muchos forzosamente a campos laborales. El brutal trato a hombres homosexuales lo registró vívidamente el autor cubano Reinaldo Arenas, quien fue condenado en 1974 por trabajos literarios que las autoridades consideraron una “desviación ideológica”. Su autobiografía, Antes que anochezca, un libro aclamado por la crítica, que fue adaptado como película, es quizás el testimonio más completo de un capítulo particularmente oscuro de la historia cubana.

Castro dijo que, a través de los años, ella y su madre, Vilma Espín, ya fallecida, intentaron suavizar la actitud de los hermanos Castro respecto a las minorías sexuales. Hace una década, la comunidad de gays y lesbianas en Cuba era menos perseguida, pero se mantenía en las sombras. Castro, quien también es diputada de la Asamblea Nacional, decidió convertir el asunto en su prioridad.

Después de la marcha de 2007, Castro, quien es heterosexual, lanzó una campaña para promover la tolerancia. Entre sus logros, figura el hecho de que el gobierno hoy en día provea cirugías de reasignación de sexo y tratamiento de reemplazo hormonal a personas transgénero. El año pasado, cuando la Asamblea aprobó un nuevo código laboral que protege a los homosexuales ─pero no a las personas transgénero─ de discriminación en el trabajo, Castro se convirtió en la primera diputada en la historia de Cuba en emitir un voto en contra de la medida, en señal de protesta. Su objetivo a largo plazo, dijo en una entrevista, es codificar la igualdad absoluta bajo la ley.

Los cubanos homosexuales dicen que la discriminación sigue siendo un problema, particularmente en las provincias. Aun así, el año pasado, una mujer en Caibarién, una municipalidad al este de La Habana, se convirtió en la primera persona transgénero elegida por voto popular. En respuesta a un pedido de Castro y de blogueros gay, a partir de 2010, el Gobierno cubano comenzó a votar a favor de resoluciones que apoyan los derechos de personas homosexuales en Naciones Unidas, rompiendo así con la posición que mantenían anteriormente con países aliados en África y el Caribe.

Aunque es ampliamente admirada, Castro y su organización estatal tienen algunos críticos entre la comunidad gay. En 2011, Yasmín Portales Machado, una activista del movimiento gay, decidió lanzar un grupo nuevo llamado Proyecto Arcoiris, debido a la necesidad de contar con una plataforma para otras voces e ideas.

En 2012, durante el aniversario del motín en Stonewall, un bar gay en Nueva York, que sucedió en 1969, Proyecto Arcoiris organizó una “besada” pública en La Habana para promover la diversidad y la igualdad. Horas antes del encuentro, un agente de seguridad del estado llamó a Machado y le pidió que la próxima vez, se dieran cita en un lugar apartado de entidades gubernamentales preeminentes. La besada fue un éxito. “Fue un gesto gay friendly de la seguridad del Estado”, afirmó, riéndose.

La administración Obama ha gastado millones de dólares promoviendo los derechos de la comunidad gay alrededor del mundo, y ha convertido el tema en una prioridad diplomática. En República Dominicana, Washington adoptó una posición valerosa el año pasado cuando funcionarios en la isla parecían no estar dispuestos a aceptar a Wally Brewster, un empresario abiertamente gay nombrado como embajador por el Presidente Obama. El Departamento de Estado le advirtió a Santo Domingo que si lo rechazaba, la isla no tendría embajador estadounidense por un largo período.

Cuando los diplomáticos de la isla accedieron, preguntaron si podían pedir que Brewster mantuviera un bajo perfil en cuanto a temas gay. Los estadounidenses contestaron que él, como los demás embajadores en la región, tendrían la misión de abogar por los derechos de las minorías sexuales. Y para dar mayor énfasis, el Departamento de Estado divulgó un video en el que Brewster y su pareja expresan su entusiasmo por asumir el cargo.

En Cuba, sin embargo, los funcionarios estadounidenses han tenido pocas oportunidades de respaldar la evolución del movimiento por los derechos gay, y han tambaleado a la hora de decidir cómo manejar el tema de la hija del presidente. Cuando la organización Equality Forum, con sede en Filadelfia, la nominó para recibir un premio el año pasado, funcionarios estadounidenses inicialmente rechazaron su solicitud de visa. Cuando el grupo protestó, accedieron.

Machado dice que la mayoría de activistas gay en la isla no están dispuestos a aceptar ayuda de Washington, dado que su política ha estado enfocada en derrocar el régimen.

“Mientras Estados Unidos sea enemigo de nuestro Estado, no podemos trabajar con ellos”, dijo Machado durante una reciente entrevista en La Habana, antes del anuncio de Obama. “Cualquier apoyo que recibas te convierte en traidor”.

Esta actitud, compartida por muchos, ha frustrado esfuerzos por parte de Estados Unidos para promover la libertad de prensa y el derecho de asamblea. El giro en la política estadounidense va a lograr que más cubanos estén dispuestos a cooperar con Estados Unidos.

Leer en inglés (Read in English) »[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/21/opinion/sunday/cubas-gay-rights-evolution.html]

* Tiempo de acabar el embargo de Cuba[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/12/opinion/sunday/tiempo-de-acabar-el-embargo-de-cuba.html]

* La impresionante contribución de Cuba en la lucha contra el ébola[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/20/opinion/la-impresionante-contribucin-de-cuba-en-la-lucha-contra-el-bola.html]

* Los cambios electorales respecto a Cuba[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/26/opinion/sunday/los-cambios-electorales-respecto-a-cuba.html]

* Un canje de presos con Cuba[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/03/opinion/un-canje-de-presos-con-cuba.html]

* En Cuba, desventuras al intentar derrocar un régimen[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/10/opinion/en-cuba-desventuras-al-intentar-derrocar-un-rgimen.html]

* La fuga de cerebros en Cuba, cortesía de EE.UU.[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/17/opinion/la-fuga-de-cerebros-en-cuba-cortesa-de-eeuu.html]

* La economía de Cuba en una encrucijada[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/15/opinion/la-economa-de-cuba-en-una-encrucijada.html]

* Obama da un paso histórico con Cuba[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/18/opinion/obama-da-un-paso-histrico-con-cuba.html]

Ana Rafaela Diaz Gomez construye una vida nueva luego de una transformación que incluyó una cirugía de cambio de sexo y terapia de reemplazo hormonal. | Alexandra Garcia and Andrew Blackwell | Mariela Castro, la hija de el presidente de Cuba, habló con el comité editorial de The New York Times sobre su lucha contra la homofobia. | Ernesto Londoño, Alexandra Garcia and Andrew Blackwell

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141220eacl00439


Editorial
Opinion; Sunday Review
Cuba’s Gay Rights Evolution
By THE EDITORIAL BOARD
1256 words
21 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Correction Appended

In Cuba, street marches have historically been government-orchestrated events or dissident protests that are swiftly crushed by the authorities. So it was downright startling when, in May 2007, Fidel Castro’s niece sauntered down the street with a small army of drag queens waving gay pride flags.

Long before the Obama administration announced a dramatic shift in Cuba policy on Wednesday, asserting that isolating the island had failed, a couple of Western governments with close ties to the United States saw the potential to help gay Cubans, even though it meant working with a prominent member of the Castro family. Havana’s first observance of the International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia[http://dayagainsthomophobia.org/] marked the beginning of a remarkable evolution of gay rights in the most populous island in the Caribbean, a region where hostile attitudes toward sexual minorities remain the norm.

Mariela Castro, the daughter of the current president, Raúl Castro, has led the charge on legislative and societal changes that have given rise to an increasingly visible and empowered community. In the process, she has carved out a rare space for civil society in an authoritarian country where grass-roots movements rarely succeed. Some Western diplomats in Havana have seen the progress on gay rights as a potential blueprint for expansion of other personal freedoms in one of the most oppressed societies on earth.

Norway and Belgium have financially supported Ms. Castro’s organization, the National Center for Sexual Education, offering a test of the merits of supporting certain policies of a government that the United States and European capitals have largely shunned because of its bleak human rights record. As the Obama administration begins carrying out its new Cuba policy, it should draw lessons from the impact others have had by engaging.

“It’s fine to criticize, but you also have to acknowledge that they’ve done good,” said John Petter Opdahl, Norway’s ambassador to Cuba, in a recent interview. Mr. Opdahl, who is gay, said his government gave Ms. Castro’s organization $230,000 over the last two years. “She has taken off a lot of the stigma for most people in the country, and she has made life so much better for so many gay people, not only in Havana but in the provinces.”

Fidel Castro’s government ostracized sexual minorities during the 1960s and 1970s, sending some people to labor camps. The brutal treatment of gay men was poignantly chronicled by the Cuban writer Reinaldo Arenas, who was jailed in 1974 for literary works the authorities deemed an “ideological deviation.” His autobiography, “Before Night Falls,” a critically acclaimed book that was made into a movie, is perhaps the most authoritative testimony of a particularly dark chapter of Cuban history.

Ms. Castro said she and her mother, Vilma Espín, for years quietly pressed the Castro brothers to soften their attitude toward sexual minorities. A decade ago, Cuba’s gay community was no longer as persecuted, but it nonetheless operated in the shadows. Ms. Castro, a member of Cuba’s National Assembly, opted to take on the issue.

After the 2007 march, Ms. Castro, who is straight, began a public campaign to promote tolerance. She persuaded the government in recent years to offer state-paid gender reassignment surgery and hormone treatment for transgender people. Last year, when the Assembly passed a labor code that protected gays and lesbians — but not transgender people — from discrimination in the workplace, Ms. Castro became the first lawmaker in Cuban history to cast a dissenting vote in protest.[http://www.bigstory.ap.org.proxy.bc.edu/article/castro-breaks-tradition-no-vote-cuba] Her ultimate goal, she said, was codifying full equality under the law.

Gay Cubans say that discrimination remains a problem, particularly outside big cities. Still, last year, a woman in Caribién, a municipality east of Havana, became the country’s first transgender elected official. At the urging of Ms. Castro and gay bloggers, in 2010 Cuba began voting in favor of resolutions supporting gay rights at the United Nations, breaking ranks with allies in Africa and the Caribbean.

While widely admired, Ms. Castro and her state-run organization are not without critics in Cuba’s gay community. In 2011, Yasmín Portales Machado, a gay rights activist, decided to start a new group[http://proyectoarcoiris.wordpress.com/] called Proyecto Arco Iris, or Rainbow, feeling it was necessary to have a platform for other voices and ideas.

In 2012, on the anniversary of the Stonewall riots, Arco Iris convened a public kissing meet-up to promote diversity and equality. Hours before it began, a security official called Ms. Machado. Next time, he asked, please pick a venue in a part of Havana that isn’t close to sensitive government buildings. The kissing event was a success. The call “was a gay-friendly gesture from state security,” she said, laughing.

The Obama administration has spent millions of dollars promoting gay rights around the world and has made the issue a diplomatic priority. In the Dominican Republic, Washington took a bold stance last year when officials appeared unwilling to accept Wally Brewster, the openly gay entrepreneur President Obama nominated as ambassador. The State Department warned Santo Domingo that if it turned Mr. Brewster down, the country would find itself without an American envoy for a long time.

When Dominican officials acquiesced, they asked that Mr. Brewster be discreet about his sexual orientation. American officials responded that he, like all ambassadors in the region, would be expected to champion gay rights. To make the point, the State Department released a video of Mr. Brewster and his partner expressing their enthusiasm for the new job.

By contrast, American officials have had few opportunities to support Cuba’s gay rights evolution and have been conflicted on how to handle Ms. Castro. When the Philadelphia-based Equality Forum nominated her for an award last year, American officials initially said they would not give her a visa. After the group protested, they relented.

Ms. Machado said most gay rights activists on the island have not accepted support from Washington because its policy toward Cuba was predicated on regime change. “While the United States is the enemy of our state, we can’t work with them,” she said recently in an interview in Havana. “Any support you receive makes you a traitor.”

That entrenched view has stymied American efforts to promote things such as freedom of assembly and freedom of the press. President Obama’s changed policy will make engagement with Americans more palatable.

Leer en español (Read in Spanish) »[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/21/opinion/la-evolucin-del-movimiento-gay-en-cuba.html]

Correction: December 21, 2014, Sunday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this editorial referred incorrectly to Cuba as the most populous island in the Caribbean. It is the most populous country.

* Obama Should End the Embargo on Cuba[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/12/opinion/sunday/end-the-us-embargo-on-cuba.html]

* Still Pondering U.S.-Cuba Relations, Fidel Castro Responds[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/15/opinion/still-pondering-us-cuba-relations-fidel-castro-responds.html]

* Cuba’s Impressive Role on Ebola [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/20/opinion/cubas-impressive-role-on-ebola.html]

* The Shifting Politics of Cuba Policy [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/26/opinion/sunday/the-shifting-politics-of-cuba-policy.html]

* A Prisoner Swap With Cuba [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/03/opinion/a-prisoner-swap-with-cuba.html]

* Alan Gross and the Cuban Five: A Timeline[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/03/opinion/alan-gross-and-the-cuban-five-a-timeline.html]

* In Cuba, Misadventures in Regime Change[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/10/opinion/in-cuba-misadventures-in-regime-change.html]

* A Cuban Brain Drain, Courtesy of the U.S.[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/17/opinion/a-cuban-brain-drain-courtesy-of-us.html]

* Cuba’s Economy at a Crossroads [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/15/opinion/cubas-economy-at-a-crossroads.html]

* Mr. Obama’s Historic Move on Cuba[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/18/opinion/a-new-beginning-with-cuba.html]

The Cuban government paid for Ana Rafaela Diaz Gomez’s sex change, yet challenges still remain for same-sex couples on the island. | Alexandra Garcia and Andrew Blackwell | Mariela Castro, the daughter of Cuba’s president, spoke with the New York Times editorial board on Dec. 2 about her fight against homophobia. | Ernesto Londoño, Alexandra Garcia and Andrew Blackwell

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141220eacl003pd


U.S.; Politics
Obama Sounds Triumphal Note at Start of Hawaii Vacation
By AMY CHOZICK
646 words
21 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Correction Appended

HONOLULU — In previous years, President Obama[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/o/barack_obama/index.html?inline=nyt-per]’s vacation here has involved the Christmas Day underwear bomber (2009), the fiscal crisis (2012) and historically low approval ratings (2013).

But this holiday season, Mr. Obama’s family vacation to the oceanfront enclave of Kailua had the feel of a victory lap.

“In terms of my own job, I’m energized, I’m excited about the prospects for the next couple of years,” Mr. Obama said hours before heading to Andrews Air Force Base with his wife, Michelle; their two daughters; and their two Portuguese water dogs.

On board Air Force One[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/p/presidents_and_presidency_us/air_force_one/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier], Mr. Obama popped back to the rear of the aircraft to tell the accompanying journalists to enjoy their time in Hawaii.

After a tumultuous year in which his party was pummeled in the midterm elections, Mr. Obama took a rare opportunity in his end-of-year-remarks[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/20/us/politics/obama-cuba-north-korea-news-conference.html] at the White House to show some braggadocio after his historic move to reopen diplomatic relations[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/18/world/americas/us-cuba-relations.html] with Cuba.

“Pick any metric you want — America’s resurgence is real,” he said. “We are better off.”

He mentioned the creation of nearly 11 million new jobs in the past 57 months, the end of the country’s combat mission in Afghanistan, the increase in domestic production of oil and gas, and the campaign in West Africa against Ebola.

But Mr. Obama also showed a relaxed approach to the barrage of reporters’ questions, as if already tapping into the laid-back vibe of Hawaii, his childhood home. “All I want for Christmas is to take your questions,” he joked.

It was quite a change from the tone of the remarks he made before last year’s vacation to Hawaii, when he told reporters he was “eager to skip town.”

On Friday, he called 2014 a “breakthrough year” and pushed back at claims by politicians in both parties that he had entered the lame-duck period of his presidency.

“My presidency is entering the fourth quarter; interesting stuff happens in the fourth quarter,” Mr. Obama said. “And I’m looking forward to it.”

“But going into the fourth quarter, you usually get a timeout,” he added. “I’m now looking forward to a quiet timeout — Christmas with my family.”

Mr. Obama got his wish at 10:38 p.m. local time on Friday, when he emerged from Air Force One tieless and in khakis. The Obama family briefly greeted Adm. Samuel J. Locklear III, commander of the United States Pacific Command, at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, before the presidential motorcade wove through the humid streets to the Obamas’ vacation home.

While the American response[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/20/world/fbi-accuses-north-korean-government-in-cyberattack-on-sony-pictures.html] to a security breach at Sony by North Korea still looms over the president’s vacation, press aides said they did not expect any news conferences or public events. Mr. Obama will play golf and catch up with friends.

“Mele kalikimaka,” he told reporters earlier in the day. Or Merry Christmas, in Hawaiian.

Correction: December 28, 2014, Sunday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about President Obama’s family vacation to the oceanfront enclave of Kailua, Hawaii, referred incorrectly to a terrorist threat he had to deal with on Christmas Day in 2009 while in Hawaii. It was the case of the so-called underwear bomber, Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, who tried to blow up a Detroit-bound airliner; it was not the shoe bomber, Richard C. Reid, who tried to blow up a trans-Atlantic airliner with explosives hidden in his shoes, in December 2001, during the presidency of George W. Bush.

* Obama Vows a Response to Cyberattack on Sony[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/20/world/fbi-accuses-north-korean-government-in-cyberattack-on-sony-pictures.html]

* Obama Defends Actions on Cuba and Promises Some Compromise With Congress[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/20/us/politics/obama-cuba-north-korea-news-conference.html]

President Obama disembarking Air Force One in Hawaii. | Eugene Tanner/Associated Press

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141221eacl000b8


A
Photo of international officials in Guinea during their tour of West African...
31 words
21 December 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
10
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Photo of international officials in Guinea during their tour of West African nations hit by Ebola virus. (S)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020150115eacl00010


SR
EBOLA SHOULD BE EASY TO TREAT
By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN
63 words
21 December 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
5
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Dispatch column by Jeffrey Gettleman observes that Ebola crisis in Sierra Leone should not be as bad as it is, given that treatment for disease is relatively simple and revolves around managing dehydration; describes feeling helpless in face of people who are suffering and who desperately need basic medical care. Photo (M)

Photograph

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020150116eacl0002x


A
FEW LIBERIANS TURN OUT FOR VOTE DELAYED BY EBOLA
By CLAIR MACDOUGALL
59 words
21 December 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
10
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Few Liberians turn out to vote in Senate elections that were delayed by Ebola outbreak; special precautions are taken at polling places to minimize risk of voters contracting the disease, which has claimed lives of more than 3,200 people in Liberia alone. Photo (M)

Photograph

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020150115eacl0000z


Foreign Desk; SECTA
Few Liberians Turn Out for Vote Delayed by Ebola
By CLAIR MacDOUGALL
651 words
21 December 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
10
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
MONROVIA, Liberia -- Liberians trickled to the polls on Saturday to vote in Senate elections that were delayed for more than two months because of the Ebola outbreak and legal challenges. Turnout is expected to be very low.

Here in the capital, special precautions were taken at polling places to minimize the risk of voters contracting Ebola, which is spread through physical contact with an infected person. The polling stations were equipped with extra cardboard voting booths and ballot boxes to ensure minimal contact between voters, who were separated by a space of three feet.

Elections workers took the temperature of voters with infrared thermometers and denied admission to those who registered over 37.5 degrees Celsius (99.5 Fahrenheit). Voters had their fingers dabbed with ink before they marked their ballots with pens or their fingerprints.

But some monitors said the safety measures were inadequate in the 14 counties outside of Monrovia. Polling places in those areas were not equipped with thermometers and sanitizers, said Oscar Bloh, the country director of Search for Common Ground, a group that is overseeing 2,000 monitors across the country. He also said that monitors were denied access to polling places while they were being opened in some areas, which he called ''unacceptable.''

Liberia has been hit hard by the Ebola virus, though the rate of new cases and deaths appeared to have slowed in recent weeks. But the country had recorded 3,290 Ebola deaths as of last week, according to the World Health Organization.

At a polling center in a school in the Jacobs Town section of Monrovia, five elections monitors had little to do.

Robert Tamba, an elections monitor for the Liberty Party who has observed three elections, said the low voter turnout at the polling center was a result of fear and apathy, fed by a suspicion of all political candidates.

''There are less people because they are tired of their leaders,'' Mr. Tamba said.

That sentiment was echoed by Alfred Tokpah, an observer for Robert Sirleaf, the son of President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, who is running against George Manneh Weah, a former soccer star, for the Montserrado seat, which represents the capital region.

''They think there is no need to come to vote, the leaders are not trusted,'' Mr. Tokpah said.

Some Liberians expressed concern on talk radio programs that their registration cards from previous elections were not being accepted. A voter roll update was conducted in 2011 and all voters were expected to be able to produce their cards.

The voting for 15 of the 30 Senate seats is the third national election Liberia has held since its brutal civil war in 2003. The country has about 1.9 million registered voters among a population of four million, more than 600,000 of whom live in Montserrado Country, the capital region.

The United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, visited the country on Friday and urged Liberians to ''ensure these elections are peaceful and objective'' and ''to follow public health guidelines against Ebola.'' Mr. Ban said the elections were ''an opportunity to show the world'' how far Liberia had come.

Clashes between supporters of Mr. Sirleaf and Mr. Weah have erupted throughout the capital in recent weeks and campaign billboards have been torn down, prompting concerns that the elections could lead to violent confrontations.

Riot police units were sent to some polling places after crowds gathered outside to monitor the procedures, with some people raising suspicions of vote-rigging measures that would favor the president's son.

Mr. Sirleaf said he was optimistic that there would be no violence.

Provisional results are expected in a few days, according the elections commission.

A Liberian woman cast her vote Saturday in Monrovia as health workers monitored polling stations across Liberia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABBAS DULLEH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141221eacl0006r


Corrections
Corrections: December 22, 2014
530 words
22 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
INTERNATIONAL

An article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/16/science/fewer-ebola-cases-go-unreported-than-thought-study-finds-.html] on Tuesday about a study analyzing Ebola case counts in West Africa misstated the rate of underreporting of cases of the disease. It was 17 percent, up to a maximum of 70 percent, not 70 percent. And the article, using information from the study’s lead author, misstated the practical implications of the previous estimate to which the new rate was compared. It meant that for every 100 known cases, there would have been 250 real cases, not 350 real cases.

NEW YORK

A chart[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/15/nyregion/new-york-archdiocese-appears-likely-to-shutter-more-churches.html] last Monday with an article about the possible merging of more parishes within the Archdiocese of New York misspelled the name of a church in the Bronx. It is St. Frances of Rome, not St. Francis. The chart also omitted the full name of a Westchester County town where the church of St. Matthew is located. It is Hastings-on-Hudson, not Hasting. And the article misspelled the name of a town in Ulster County where the church of St. Francis de Sales is located. It is Phoenicia, not Phonicia.

•

An article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/16/nyregion/battery-park-citys-populist-sailing-school-may-lose-lease.html] on Tuesday about the future of a marina lease in Battery Park City misidentified the location of a luxury boat basin operated by Island Global Yachting, a company affiliated with one of the bidders. The Newport Yacht Club & Marina is in Jersey City — not in Newport, R.I.

•

An article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/15/nyregion/police-arrest-man-on-assault-charge-during-protest-on-brooklyn-bridge.html] last Monday about an arrest in the attack on two police lieutenants by protesters over the weekend gave an outdated name for the hospital where the officers were treated. It is NewYork-Presbyterian/Lower Manhattan Hospital, no longer New York Downtown Hospital. (The name was changed in 2013.)

SPORTS

Because of an editing error, the TV Sports column[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/16/sports/in-seeking-tv-bids-premier-league-controls-the-ball.html] on Tuesday, about the bidding for the Premier League television contract, referred incorrectly to the Premier League team of which ESPN President John Skipper is a fan. It is Tottenham Hotspur, not Hotspurs. (Spurs is the team’s nickname.)

WEEKEND

A report[http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/12/18/premieres-a-new-ensemble-and-more-at-jacobs-pillow/] in the “Arts, Briefly” column on Friday about next year’s Jacob’s Pillow Festival in Becket, Mass., misspelled the surname of a choreographer whose company will perform there. She is Liz Gerring, not Gering.

OBITUARIES

An obituary[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/13/nyregion/ophelia-devore-mitchell-91-dies-redefined-beauty.html?module=Search&mabReward=relbias&] on March 13 about the model, modeling agent and charm-school director Ophelia DeVore-Mitchell misstated the year she was born, and her age. She was born on Aug. 12 in 1921, not in 1922; therefore she was 92 when she died, not 91. Her family notified The Times of the error this month.

The Times welcomes comments and suggestions, or complaints about errors that warrant correction. Messages on news coverage can be e-mailed to nytnews@nytimes.com[mailto:nytnews@nytimes.com] or left toll-free at 1-888-NYT-NEWS (1-888-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be e-mailed to letters@nytimes.com[mailto:letters@nytimes.com] or faxed to (212) 556-3622.

Readers dissatisfied with a response or concerned about the paper’s journalistic integrity may reach the public editor at public@nytimes.com [mailto:public@nytimes.com]or (212) 556-7652.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or e-mail customercare@nytimes.com[mailto:customercare@nytimes.com].

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141222eacm001rx


Metropolitan Desk; SECTA
Corrections
87 words
22 December 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
2
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
An article on Tuesday about a study analyzing Ebola case counts in West Africa misstated the rate of underreporting of cases of the disease. It was 17 percent, up to a maximum of 70 percent, not 70 percent. And the article, using information from the study's lead author, misstated the practical implications of the previous estimate to which the new rate was compared. It meant that for every 100 known cases, there would have been 250 real cases, not 350 real cases.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141222eacm0004h


First Draft
Today in Politics
THE NEW YORK TIMES
1684 words
22 December 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
As Racial Tensions Grow, the President Is Asked to Speak Up

Good Monday morning from Washington, where President Obama is under pressure to address growing racial tensions after the fatal shootings of two New York City police officers. In Brooklyn, Jeh Johnson, the Homeland Security secretary, placed flowers at a memorial to the officers. Reacting to the cyberattack on Sony Pictures, Republicans are calling on Mr. Obama to take a firmer stance against North Korea. Also, we review 2014 with a slide show of our Washington staff’s best photographs [http://www.nytimes.com/politics/first-draft/?p=7713] .

President Obama is facing renewed pressure to respond to racial tensions that have been building since the police shooting this summer of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo., and that took another turn with an African-American man’s fatal ambush of two New York officers [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/22/nyregion/a-divided-city-mourns-the-deaths-of-two-officers.html?hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&module=first-column-region®ion=top-news&WT.nav=top-news] over the weekend.

When he was elected in 2008, Mr. Obama — the son of a black father and a white mother — was hailed as a leader who could bridge lingering racial divides. Instead, he finds himself serving during a time of heightened tensions, with a Bloomberg Politics poll released early this month in which 53 percent of respondents said race relations had grown worse [http://images.businessweek.com/cms/2014-12-06/23_24.pdf] during Mr. Obama’s tenure.

For the most part, the president has responded with caution, in stark contrast to the soaring language he issued to discuss racial issues [http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2008/03/21/poll-obama-receives-high-marks-for-race-speech/comment-page-6/] during the 2008 presidential campaign [http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2008/03/18/us/politics/20080318_OBAMA_GRAPHIC.html]. And he has faced widespread conservative criticism when he has tried to address the issue — as when he said “if I had a son, he’d look like Trayvon” [http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/03/23/obama-makes-first-comments-on-trayvon-martin-shooting/?module=Search&mabReward=relbias%3Aw%2C%7B%221%22%3A%22RI%3A7%22%7D] amid the uproar over Trayvon Martin’s death in Florida and his killer’s acquittal.

When asked on Friday about racial issues during his end-of-year news conference, Mr. Obama replied, “Like the rest of America, black America in the aggregate is better off now than it was when I came into office.”

Mr. Obama has declined to respond directly to African-Americans who have said in recent weeks that they’d like to hear more from him on the topic.

“If critics want to suggest that America is inherently and irreducibly racist, then why bother even working on it?” he told reporters on Friday.

– Amy Chozick

Homeland Security Chief Makes Condolence Call to Grieving Precinct

Shortly after Jeh Johnson, the Homeland Security secretary, went for his normal morning workout on Sunday, he told the team of Secret Service agents who protect him that he was staying home for the rest of the day.

But as Mr. Johnson watched news accounts of Saturday’s fatal shooting of two New York police officers, he grew convinced that he had to visit the scene. Mr. Johnson was in the perfect location to make such a trip. Unlike weekdays and some weekends, when he is in Washington, Mr. Johnson was at his home in Montclair, N.J.

“Ten minutes after I had gotten back into my house, I turned around and told them, ‘I want to go to the scene of the crime today at noon,’ ” Mr. Johnson said in a telephone interview on Sunday night.

The car was no longer there, but makeshift memorials were going up nearby. Mr. Johnson left two sets of roses and said a prayer before heading to the officers’ precinct. It “looks like every single other New York City police station,” he said. “But it had the feel of a family wake.”

Inside, he said, there were mountains of food and several of the precinct’s former commanders – some who didn’t even know the men who were killed. “I introduced myself to every officer there,” he said.

Mr. Johnson said he had learned the power of such visits firsthand on the anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks last year when he toured fire and police stations in Lower Manhattan with former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York.

“Showing up counts with these officers — just being there,” he said. “There is nothing eloquent you are expected to say, nothing specific you are expected to say. Just showing up matters a lot.”

– Michael S. Schmidt

Cuba Provides an Early Staging Ground for G.O.P. Presidential Race

Two of the likely Republican presidential contenders — Senators Marco Rubio of Florida and Rand Paul of Kentucky — continued to have at it [http://www.nytimes.com/politics/first-draft/2014/12/19/?entry=7614] on Sunday over President Obama‘s new Cuba policy. Mr. Rubio lashed out with what in party circles may be the ultimate insult, referring to the Cuban overtures, and Mr. Paul’s support of them, as the “Obama-Paul foreign policy.”

“If he wants to become the chief cheerleader of Obama’s foreign policy, he certainly has a right to do that,” Mr. Rubio said on the ABC News program “This Week” after absorbing repeated jabs via Twitter on Friday from Mr. Paul, who called him an isolationist.

Their sparring raises the question of how much trouble this might create for Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, who as the incoming majority leader will have to manage the presidential hopes and egos of Mr. Paul and Mr. Rubio and any others who might enter the primary fight.

Mr. McConnell, in a recent interview, said he didn’t think he would have a problem.

“Ambition in the Senate is not unusual,” said Mr. McConnell, who recently achieved his own personal goal to become majority leader. “We have all kinds of ambition in the Senate for all kinds of things.”

– Carl Hulse and Emmarie Huetteman

Sony Hacking Was an Act of War, McCain Says

Republican congressmen who blanketed the morning talk shows on Sunday took President Obama to task over what they said was his weak response to the cyberattack on Sony Pictures. The United States has said it has evidence that North Korea is behind the hacking in retaliation for the Sony release of “The Interview,” a comedy about a far-fetched assassination plot against Kim Jong-un.

Senator John McCain, for one, said that it was an act of war and that Mr. Obama should have acknowledged it as such.

“The president does not understand that this is a new — this is a manifestation of a new form of warfare,” the Arizona Republican said on CNN’s “State of the Union.”

Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, was equally emphatic. “It is an act of terrorism,” he said on the CBS News program “Face the Nation.”

Their criticisms provide insight into how the 114th Congress might respond when it convenes in a couple of weeks, with Senator Mark S. Kirk, Republican of Illinois, calling for congressional hearings on the attack, the decision by leading theater chains to pull the movie from their screens and Sony Pictures’ cancellation of its Christmas Day release.

– Nick Corasaniti

What We’re Watching Today

President Obama is in Honolulu, and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. is home in Wilmington, Del.

The Permanent Council of the Organization of American States has called a special meeting for 11 a.m. at its Washington headquarters to discuss the changes in United States-Cuba relations [http://www.oas.org/en/default.asp]. The Joint Inter-American Dialogue/Brookings Institution Latin America Initiative will also discuss the diplomatic breakthrough [http://www.thedialogue.org/page.cfm?pageID=425&eventID=450&invitee=c4ffd296-217a-4f26-b9ea-fb697afa5345] from 9 to 10:30 a.m.

Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, holds a news conference at 9:15 a.m. in Liberia on American efforts to stop Ebola [http://www.coons.senate.gov/newsroom/releases/release/senator-coons-heading-to-liberia-to-review-efforts-to-stop-ebola].

Independents Moving in Republicans’ Direction, Party Pollster Says

Independent voters, who were critical to President Obama’s nomination and election in 2008, are now “solidly” Republican-leaning, a party pollster concluded after sifting through November exit polls and his own election-night survey of voters.

But Republicans could lose that edge, he warned, if they focus on fighting Mr. Obama rather than on passing legislation after they take control of Congress.

“The ideological composition of independents has moved from a leaning center-right group to a solidly center-right group,” David Winston, a strategist for congressional Republicans, wrote in a postelection analysis [http://d2tcyfzwq8vdoa.cloudfront.net/wp-content/uploads/2014/12/2014-Post-Election-Analysis-Final.pdf] that is circulating among leaders in both parties.

A reason for the shift – other than dissatisfaction with Mr. Obama — is that independents as a group now include Americans who once identified as Republicans but who became disillusioned with the party, Mr. Winston said. They remain conservative but are not as partisan as self-described Republicans, many of whom want congressional Republicans to continue their battles with the president, and some of whom want to proceed with impeachment.

“Independents, by a wide margin, want Republicans to concentrate on economic policies over reining in the president,” he wrote.

Republicans have won independents for three straight elections since 2008. Two years ago, Mr. Obama lost them by five percentage points, even as he won re-election.

– Jackie Calmes

Our Favorites From Today’s Times

The man who killed the two police officers in New York City had boasted of his plans [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/22/nyregion/a-divided-city-mourns-the-deaths-of-two-officers.html?hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&module=first-column-region®ion=top-news&WT.nav=top-news].

Some Republicans worry that the popularity of Ben Carson, a favorite of the party’s most conservative wing, threatens a smooth nominating process [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/22/us/politics/gop-hopes-for-unity-may-be-upset-by-ben-carson.html?hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&module=first-column-region®ion=top-news&WT.nav=top-news] in 2016.

President Obama may return North Korea to the list of state sponsors of terrorism [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/22/us/politics/obama-cuba-north-korea-cyberattack.html?hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&module=first-column-region®ion=top-news&WT.nav=top-news] in retaliation for the hacking at Sony Pictures.

Gas prices are down, but public transit ridership is up [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/22/us/despite-cheaper-gas-public-transit-ridership-is-up-trade-group-reports.html?ref=us].

What We’re Reading Elsewhere

President Obama took the Sony Pictures hacking crisis “from bad to worse,” [http://variety.com/2014/film/opinion/how-obama-took-sonys-crisis-from-bad-to-worse-1201384780/] according to Variety.

Carl Hiaasen, in The Miami Herald, says there has been an “outbreak of common sense” [http://www.miamiherald.com/opinion/opn-columns-blogs/carl-hiaasen/article4744395.html] on Cuba.

The Senate Ethics Committee guidelines that have constrained former Senator Jim DeMint [http://www.nationaljournal.com.proxy.bc.edu/politics/return-of-the-kingmaker-jim-demint-is-getting-back-in-the-game-20141217], the South Carolina Republican, in his role as Heritage Foundation president are expiring, and he is ready to storm Congress in lobbying for conservative causes, National Journal says.

The Washington Post reports that President Obamahas selected Sally Quillian Yates [http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/sally-yates-said-to-be-obamas-nominee-for-justice-departments-second-in-command/2014/12/21/eb7fd908-8939-11e4-8ff4-fb93129c9c8b_story.html], the United States attorney in Atlanta, to be the No. 2 official at the Justice Department.

New York magazine has a list, and a slide show, [http://www.vulture.com/2014/12/complete-list-of-who-was-on-the-colbert-finale.html] of every guest who sang farewell to Stephen Colbert last week (including Maureen Dowd, Thomas L. Friedman and David Leonhardt of The Times).

Like this? Get First Draft delivered to your inbox [http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics/].

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141222eacm00105


World; Africa
C.D.C. Head Says Fight on Ebola Will Be Long
By DENISE GRADY
544 words
23 December 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
There are reasons for both hope and continued worry about the Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] epidemic in West Africa, Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/c/centers_for_disease_control_and_prevention/index.html?inline=nyt-org], said on Monday.

Just back from a weeklong trip to the affected countries — Guinea[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/guinea/index.html?inline=nyt-geo], Liberia[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/liberia/index.html?inline=nyt-geo] and Sierra Leone[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/sierraleone/index.html?inline=nyt-geo] — Dr. Frieden said at a news conference, “I’m hopeful about stopping the epidemic, but I remain realistic that this is going to be a long, hard fight.”

The World Health Organization on Monday reported 19,340 Ebola cases, including 7,518 deaths in West Africa. Sierra Leone had the most cases, 8,939; Liberia had 7,830 and Guinea 2,571.

On the hopeful side, Dr. Frieden said he had visited a remote part of Guinea, where just a few months ago there was no treatment center and where resistance to visiting health workers had been intense. Now there is a center, established by the French Red Cross, with acceptance by the community, good care and patients surviving, Dr. Frieden said.

On the other hand, he said, he was alarmed to hear that on a recent day in Conakry, Guinea’s capital, there were not enough beds for all the patients who needed them. Leaving infected people in the community can lead to exponential spread of the disease, Dr. Frieden said, adding, “That’s what Conakry is at risk of.”

He said he had met with Guinea’s president, Alpha Condé, who told him that the country was working hard to open more treatment units in Conakry.

Dr. Frieden said he was also dismayed to hear about a nurse at Donka Hospital in Conakry, Guinea’s largest hospital, who contracted Ebola after starting an intravenous line on a patient who turned out to be infected. Even though it was six months into the epidemic, the nurse had failed to put on gloves.

Sierra Leone has also been struggling, Dr. Frieden said, noting that many health workers at Connaught Hospital in the capital, Freetown, have died of Ebola and that the hospital is still “largely closed.” At least 10 people a day have been dying in the surrounding community, sometimes at the hospital entrance.

But he said efforts to fight the disease in Freetown were being scaled up, and cases should decrease significantly in the next few weeks.

Of the three countries, Liberia is in the best shape, Dr. Frieden said, adding that cases had decreased quickly there.

“As of today, Liberia has the upper hand against the virus,” he said. One important step, he said, was the opening of a new cemetery for people who died of Ebola. Earlier insistence on cremation had backfired because the culture frowned on it; families resorted to secret burials, which led to infections in relatives who handled the bodies. Corpses are highly infectious.

But problems remain. For instance, Dr. Frieden said, some people in Monrovia, the capital, think treatment centers outside the city provide better care and take long taxi rides to those clinics, potentially infecting the drivers and making it harder to trace their contacts.

The epidemic will not end, he said, until every contact is traced and every chain of transmission broken.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141222eacn004v1


© 2015 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.	
 