
Factiva
Dow Jones
Travel
Texas, 3 Ways
By ROBERT DRAPER
3354 words
16 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
You might say that a certain otherness has always characterized Texas as a whole — and by “whole,” I refer to that entire 269,000-square-mile sui generis behemoth on the map, mallet-headed and dainty-footed, with a single dorsal wing and a swollen belly that appears to contain two or three neighboring states.

Unifying the Lone Star state is the enduring pride Texans take in its sheer bigness, in its defiant Alamo spirit and in the confidence, borne out of its brief (and not altogether successful) status as a former sovereign republic, that it can get by just fine without anyone’s help.

“Texas has never been short on self-love, perhaps its greatest natural resource,” writes the author and Texas Monthly political journalist Erica Grieder. Being a Texan herself, Ms. Grieder can be excused for exaggerating; after all, a recent University of Texas/Texas Tribune poll found that a mere 27 percent of statewide respondents identify themselves as Texans first and Americans second.

Still, her point prompts a salient question: Exactly which Texas are Texans loving? And for that matter, which Texas do its visitors expect to find when they’re visiting? (It ranked sixth last year among states as an overseas tourist draw, according to the United States Department of Commerce.)

I would submit, as a proud native, that Texas is no longer what it, and we, think it is, even after the state G.O.P.'s total domination in the midterm elections. Take its biggest city, Houston[http://travel.nytimes.com/travel/guides/north-america/united-states/texas/houston/overview.html?inline=nyt-geo], which is also the fourth biggest in America. Today, like the state itself, the city is majority-minority. Thirty-five percent of its 2.2 million inhabitants are Hispanic, though the city’s fastest-growing group is Asian. Concomitant with these demographic shifts are political realities that were unimaginable two decades ago. Since 2010, Houston’s mayor has been Annise Parker, a gay woman. For that matter, Barack Obama carried Harris County in the past two election cycles, just as he did Dallas County. The urban cowboy has receded into the horizon. The Astrodome lies vacant. Apocalypse now: Texas looks like America!

None of which is to suggest that Texas has assimilated its way into banality. Its frontier tenet — if you can handle it here, you belong here — remains thoroughly in force. At the same time, its newest settlers swear no fealty to the rural Anglo culture that once prevailed. By now everyone knows, from these pages and elsewhere, how cool Austin and Marfa are. The alternative view is that these are manageably de-Texanized dreamscapes for Palo Alto and Brooklyn exiles, but let’s not have that argument here. Instead, the next time you’re traveling through the Lone Star State, gratify your imagination with areas in the following three cities that conjure up a Texas far more interesting than the stereotypes Texans themselves have long embraced.

Houston: Asia Town

Sequestered in southwest suburban Houston, a few miles apart from each other near Bellaire Boulevard, sit two Asian places of worship. One of them, the Jade Buddha Temple, was built in 1990 by a nonprofit outfit of predominantly Taiwanese-Americans calling itself the Texas Buddhist Association. The other, the Teo Chew Temple, attracts a predominantly Vietnamese congregation and was funded by Hai Du Duong, one of the thousands of destitute “boat people” who arrived on the Gulf Coast in the late ’70s and ‘80s and scrapped their way into Houston’s labor force. Both are lovely, dignified structures and well worth a visit. (Sunday services at the Jade Temple are offered in both Mandarin and English, as are Dharma lessons for children.)

But it’s the three-mile strip on Bellaire Boulevard between the two temples that offers a new, hidden-in-plain-sight context to the Bayou City. Block after block, store after store is Asian: reflexology clinics, herbal medicine shops, scores upon scores of Korean and Thai and Chinese and Vietnamese restaurants and not a single American fast-food totem in sight. It’s an overwhelming spectacle, all the more so because its architecturally uniformity — we’re in the Houston suburbs, after all — adds to the feeling of having fallen off the map. The place begs for a guide, and fortunately I had one with me: Christy Chang, director of Asia Heritage Discovery Tours. Ms. Chang, though a Houstonian since 1979, conceded that she was hardly a pioneer: The first Chinese residents, she pointed out, came here in 1870 to work on the railroad.

The nexus of Asia Town is the Hong Kong City Mall, erected by the same Hai Du Duong. (Talk about Texas hospitality: When Louisiana evacuees from Hurricane Katrina[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/h/hurricane_katrina/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] poured into Houston during the summer of 2005, Mr. Hai sheltered hundreds of them in his building.) On weekends the mall’s sprawling parking lot is completely full, and the shopping corridors recall the actual Hong Kong during high season. We toured it on a Wednesday morning. The east end of the mall was redolent of crayfish beignets; nearby, a cluster of elderly men would soon gather to play a Chinese version of chess called Xiangqi.

“When I moved to Houston from Taiwan in 1979, I had to drive all the way downtown just to buy a box of tofu,” Ms. Chang told me as we approached the answer to her prayers, the gloriously overabundant Hong Kong Market, a one-stop venue for barbecued quail, woks, live razor clams, dried sea cucumbers and, yes, an embarrassment of tofu. Elsewhere in the mall are shops devoted to jewelry, silk cloths, Asian music and eyeglasses, along with signs advertising the services of a Vietnamese lawyer. I began to gravitate toward the aroma of a Vietnamese sandwich shop. Ms. Chang suggested instead that we take tea now and dine later.

A few blocks east of the mall, we walked into the Ten Ren Tea Shop. Customers filed in and out of a side office where a doctor took their pulse and then prescribed various herbal medicines. From the dozens of canisters on the shelves, the tea master, a gangly young man named Jimmy, removed the high mountain oolong and pearl jasmine and brewed us a cup of each. Both were bewitching and, Jimmy assured us, high in cancer-combating antioxidants.

My more pressing concern, though, was starvation. Ms. Chang ushered me off to the nearby Golden Dumpling, a small Chinese restaurant where the only English in view was on two signs: “Thank you for not smoking” and “Cold drinks.” At the counter, however, the cashier offered me a menu written in my native language. Every dumpling I tried — steamed cabbage, chives with dried shrimp, pan-fried with pork — was a deep dive into pillowy bliss, at a cost of about $20 a person. Ms. Chang pronounced the tour completed and left me beatifically reposed in a Houston I had not known existed.

Dallas: Klyde Warren Park

“Inhale. Now, Warrior One. Just … breathe.” A little after 10 on a Saturday morning, some 50 Lycra-clad individuals and their yoga mats lay stretched across a grassy knoll in downtown Dallas. Directly behind them loomed the silver-dark commercial skyline. A few yards away, dog adoption clinic volunteers spilled puppies out of their cages and onto the lawn, while, nearby, a dozen or so children scaled a molecularly shaped jungle gym. Competing with the Enya-esque soundtrack and the yoga instructor’s voice was the oceanic sound loop of Interstate traffic.

For much of the past half-century, the tourism gods have scowled upon Dallas, and the recent tragic cases of Ebola in the city have continued that trend. Even in good times, Dallas is a prisoner of its braying, big-haired caricature. And though frequent visitors know that the made-for-TV antics of J. R. Ewing hardly captured the city in full, it has certainly never pretended to be Austin. I pointed this out to the yoga instructor, Lauren Margulies, once her class was done. Nodding, she replied, “People in Dallas are looking for a way to connect to the outdoors, and that’s something that’s been lacking here. And so to have all these people on the grass doing this ancient ritual beneath the downtown skyscrapers is such an interesting juxtaposition. Dallas needed this.”

Apparently. Since Klyde Warren Park opened in October 2012 — the fruit of a $110 million public-private partnership constructed on top of a former epic eyesore, the overpass of the eight-lane Woodall Rodgers Freeway, as a green corridor linking the city’s uptown and arts districts — it has quickly become one of the biggest draws in Dallas and, in the process, an eco-friendly shredder of stereotypes. Here you see the professionally harried and the wayward stretched out on the grass or idled in folding chairs playing chess. You see food trucks. You see shelves of free books. You see a sign forbidding “commercial activity” — drive a stake through J. R.'s wizened heart, why don’tcha! And all of this splayed on a mere five acres, which in size-obsessed Texas surely sets a record for architectural restraint.

Of course, because it remains awfully hard to be humble in Dallas, the park’s blue-ribbon donors are honored with plaques designating the Moody and Hart Plazas, the Muse Family Performance Pavilion and the Ginsburg Family Great Lawn. (The park itself is named after the son of the local energy billionaire Kelcy Warren, a donor.) Still, even on busy weekends the park’s ethos is peaceable, a somnolent connective tissue between the city’s dignified cultural institutions (chief among them, the Dallas Museum of Art and the Meyerson Symphony Center) and the rollicking uptown restaurant scene (epitomized by Stampede 66 and Fearing’s). And, as Ms. Margulies, the yoga instructor, suggested, the tableau of an unself-consciously mixed citizenry languishing beneath the shadows of the Hunt Oil and Bain & Company buildings is not simply counterintuitive to Dallas stereotypes; it’s a reminder that beneath the bravado is a city that has shed more than a few demons and frankly deserves a break.

I ate lunch at a splashy new dining spot at the edge of Klyde Warren, Lark on the Park, and chatted with the owner, the longtime Dallas restaurateur Shannon Wynne. When he commented, “Dallas has matured more in the last five years than in the past 25,” I asked him why this was. He guffawed in reply, “Well, it certainly can’t be the locals.” He added that the city had benefited greatly from new blood, and that they in turn had emboldened establishment Dallasites to reconsider the city’s possibilities.

While Mr. Wynne talked, I looked over his shoulder at the restaurant’s walls, which were covered with intricate chalk drawings that rotate quarterly: one by a local tattoo artist, another by a medical illustrator, a third depicting the University of Texas at Dallas’s top-ranked chess team. Meanwhile, outside, dozens of residents were tossing Frisbees, or ice skating. It occurred to me that while Dallas has always exhibited the capacity to surprise others, it had now succeeded in surprising itself.

El Paso: El Segundo Barrio

The street muralist, 37-year-old Jesus Alvarado, known as Cimi, gestured at the little boy in the painting being bathed by his mother in the aluminum tub while shaving his own baby-soft cheek with a razor blade. “I grew up with a single mother, as the only male in the house,” he said. “And the shaving signifies how you have to grow up fast.”

The mural, “El Corrido del Segundo Barrio,” was painted by Mr. Alvarado on parachute cloth two years ago and installed outdoors behind the El Paso Boys and Girls Club, in the heart of the city’s working class Hispanic neighborhood El Segundo Barrio, or the Second Ward, where the artist spent his childhood. The barrio is a montage of indigenous motifs: the Sacred Heart Church, the neighborhood’s cultural and spiritual anchor; el Puente Negro, the nearby crossing where illegal immigrants would sprint alongside trains and into America; street musicians and other town fixtures.

A protégé of the revered local artist Gaspar Enriquez, Mr. Alvarado is a hard-working street muralist but far from the only one. As we drove the tidy streets of Segundo Barrio, ornate images materialized on walls of nearly every block: a depiction of the town’s former “bicycling priest,” Father Rahm; a lavish Aztec reimagination of Romeo and Juliet; a tuxedo-clad man haloed by the declaration “God Is Mexican”; and a remarkable and stirring mural evoking the life of boys in the barrio.

The works were done in broad daylight — though very few were commissioned by the city (“El Corrido del Segundo Barrio” being one exception). Most, Mr. Alvarado said, were informal arrangements in which the shopkeeper might pick up the cost of the painter’s art supplies. However the means, the effect is extraordinary. Segundo Barrio has become its own outdoor museum of the border proletariat.

When Texans and non-Texans alike consider the state romantically, intentionally or not they’re summoning up the big-sky country of the West, with its bowlegged, string-tied paleo-libertarian ethic and its borderland noir mystique. Marfa is other things, but it is not that place. Instead, the vast cattle ranches and endless desert vistas are found west of Marfa, girdling 200 miles of Interstate, concluding at the junction of New Mexico and Chihuahua with its last repository of Southwestern soul, in El Paso.

With about 674,000 residents, El Paso is the state’s sixth-biggest city. You can tour wineries, attend farmers’ markets and watch touring indie rock bands and pretend that you’re somewhere else. Though the city is awash in Hispanic culture owing to Juarez just across the Rio Grande, El Paso’s civic fabric is a complicated weave that has long included Irish, Chinese, Syrian and Lebanese émigrés. (The actor F. Murray Abraham, of Syrian descent, spent nearly all of his childhood and college years here.)

Its freshman (and just re-elected) congressman, Beto O’Rourke — whose family came over from Ireland four generations ago to work on the railroad — is a former indie-band guitarist who beat an entrenched incumbent in part by campaigning that the “war on drugs” must end. But when I interviewed Mr. O’Rourke in Washington one day about other matters, I concluded by telling him, “I’m thinking of coming to your district to check out El Paso. Is there anything there that you think would surprise me?”

The congressman nearly sprang from his leather couch. “Oh, man,” he said. “You’ve got to go to Segundo Barrio.”

There was excitement in his voice, but also defiance. The barrio dead-ends at the border to Juarez, which for decades has been regarded as a murderous haven of traficantes violent (though recently its streets have become noticeably safer). Despite this, its neighbor El Paso has been ranked, based on violent crime statistics, as the safest city in America for the past four years. “I think that’s because of the fact that 26 percent of the residents are recent immigrants,” Mr. O’Rourke said. “These folks are strivers, focused on getting ahead. There’s self-policing. And because we’re on the border, we also have one of the highest concentrations of federal law enforcement in America.”

I met up with Mr. O’Rourke in Segundo Barrio and we took another spin. The streets were filling up with day visitors from Juarez gathering cheap products to take back across the pedestrian bridge. He drove me past some of his favorite sights in the neighborhood he calls “Texas’s Ellis Island, the launching pad to citizenship.”

A small bronze plaque on dusty South Oregon Street commemorated the spot where the famed novel of the 1910 Mexican Revolution, “Los de Abajo” (“Those From Below”) was written by Mariano Azuela. No such sign existed to memorialize the escape path taken into Mexico by Steve McQueen and Ali MacGraw in Sam Peckinpah’s 1972 film “The Getaway,” but Mr. O’Rourke gestured vaguely that it was in this vicinity.

A few blocks south resided Mr. O’Rourke’s favorite outlet for chicharrones (cracklings), while on Alameda he pointed an enthusiastic finger at Ciro’s (“awesome flautas with fresh guacamole”), though when the time came for a quick bite we opted for pumpkin empanadas at Bowie Bakery, a favorite pit stop of George W. Bush.

That evening we would see a more sophisticated side of El Paso: opening night to Gaspar Enriquez’s electrifying “Metaphors of El Barrio” temporary exhibition at the El Paso Museum of Art[http://www.elpasoartmuseum.org/]; grilled steaks with roasted chile peppers at the tony Café Central; and a tequila nightcap high up on Rim Road, at the home of one of the congressman’s constituents, the daughter of the former El Paso mayor Jonathan Rogers, who legendarily disdained formality to the point that he would cut off the neckties of visitors with his scissors.

From just beyond her front lawn we could look out onto the twinkling infinity of Juarez, Mexico, at night, and illuminated beneath it, “La Equis,” its hulking new X-shaped monument — a spot worth marking, no doubt, but by now the evidence was clear that the place to be was right where we stood.

IF YOU GO

HOUSTON

Though Asia Town is frequently referred to as Chinatown, its populace is decidedly mixed (with the plurality of the city’s Asian population being Vietnamese). Its main axis is Bellaire Boulevard in the southwest Houston district of Alief, with its densest concentration bordered to the east and west by two temples, both just south of Bellaire: Jade Buddha Temple (6969 Westbranch Drive; 281-498-1616; jadebuddha­.org[http://www.jadebuddha­.org]) and Teo Chew Temple (10599 Turtlewood Court; 281-983-0097). Both are open to the public.

Asian Heritage Discovery Tours (832-858-2788; asianheritagediscovery­.com[http://www.asianheritagediscovery­.com]). Christy Chang conducts tours free of charge on weekdays from 9:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. by prior arrangement.

Hong Kong City Mall (11205 Bellaire Boulevard; 281-575-7863). This self-contained complex is Asia Town in miniature. Pedicures, tofu, silk cloths and crayfish beignets are among the offerings.

Ten Ren Tea (10804 Bellaire Boulevard; 281-495-2833). The place for herbal medicines and, above all, handpicked tea leaves. Group tea tastings by appointment.

Golden Dumpling House (9896 Bellaire Boulevard; 713-270-9996). Three years old and indistinct in appearance from other nearby restaurants, Golden Dumpling House is the place for perfectly cooked dumplings of all types. The chive and dried shrimp version is transcendent. Per person, about $20.

DALLAS

The five-acre Klyde Warren Park is at 2012 Woodall Rodgers Freeway in the heart of downtown and is open daily from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m. (klydewarrenpark­.org[http://www.klydewarrenpark­.org]). Activities include a children’s playground, free music concerts, ice skating and weekend yoga classes.

Lark on the Park (2015 Woodall Rodgers Freeway; 214-855-5275; larkonthepark.com[http://www.larkonthepark.com]). A casually upmarket restaurant with park views and rotating exhibits of chalkboard art on its walls. Excellent sandwiches and microbrew beers for lunch and continental fare for dinner. Per person, about $30.

EL PASO

In the one-square-mile historic working-class Hispanic-American neighborhood of El Segundo Barrio, street murals are ubiquitous; among the more notable are “El Corrido del Segundo Barrio” (behind the Boys & Girls Club at Sixth and Campbell Streets), Carlos Rosas’ “Entelequia” (also Sixth and Campbell), “The Boxing Hall of Fame” (Stanton and Mills) and “God Is Mexican” (Cesar Chavez and Campbell).

Bowie Bakery (901 Park Street; 915-544-6025; bowiebakery­.com[http://www.bowiebakery­.com]). Founded in 1951, the pastry shop features empanadas and cakes favored by George W. Bush and locals.

Robert Draper is a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine and National Geographic.

Children play in Klyde Warren Park in Dallas. | Allison V. Smith for The New York Times | Jesus Alvarado, a street muralist, in his El Paso studio. | Nancy Newberry for The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141114eabg004va


Diplomatic Memo
World; Asia Pacific
Finishing Asia Tour, Obama Promotes More Ambitious Foreign Policy
By MARK LANDLER
1080 words
16 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
BRISBANE, Australia — When President Obama[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/o/barack_obama/index.html?inline=nyt-per] ended his last trip to Asia in the Philippines in April, he delivered a defense of his foreign policy as a slow, steady pursuit of American interests — casting himself as a batter who hits singles and doubles, but avoids reckless errors.

As he finishes another tour of the region in Australia[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/australia/index.html?inline=nyt-geo] this weekend, Mr. Obama seems to have found a formula for a more ambitious approach overseas, built around two issues that only recently climbed to the top of his agenda: trade and climate change[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/science/topics/globalwarming/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier].

The scorecard for this trip looks drastically different from the last one: a landmark climate-change agreement[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/12/world/asia/china-us-xi-obama-apec.html] with China, a trade deal with the Chinese on technology products, signs of progress on a regional trade agreement known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and a $3 billion pledge to a climate-change fund for developing countries.

Some of the difference is merely a question of timing. Negotiations with the Chinese on the climate and trade agreements had been underway for months. The prospects for a Trans-Pacific Partnership deal improved in recent months, and may actually be helped further in the United States by the Republican majorities in both houses of Congress.

Nor do these issues come without traps of their own. Republicans immediately condemned Mr. Obama’s climate agreement with China. The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said it would require China to do nothing for 16 years while “creating havoc in my state and other states across the country.”

But administration officials said the accomplishments of the trip exemplified what Mr. Obama hopes will be an “affirmative agenda” in foreign policy — one that will offset the relentless stream of crises he has confronted, including the Islamic State militant group, the Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] outbreak and Ukraine.

“Even as we have to manage crises, we want to make sure we’re focusing on an affirmative agenda,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser. “I think that’s the common thread on this trip.”

Mr. Obama clearly relished having momentum as he arrived in Brisbane for a meeting of the Group of 20, the organization of 19 industrial and emerging-market countries plus the European Union. Speaking at the University of Queensland on Saturday, he drew noisy applause when he talked about how the climate deal with China could galvanize efforts to negotiate a new global climate treaty in 2015.

“You’ve got to be able to overcome old divides, look squarely at the science and reach a strong global climate agreement next year,” Mr. Obama said. “If China and the United States can agree on this, then the world can agree on this. We can get this done.”

Mr. Obama’s words carried an extra edge in Australia, where Prime Minister Tony Abbott is a blunt skeptic about the science behind climate change. He boasted to the leaders gathered for the meeting that his government had repealed a tax on carbon emissions — a key tool to curb the greenhouse gases that heat up the atmosphere.

Mr. Abbott tried to keep climate change off the agenda at the Group of 20 meeting, preferring to focus on jobs and economic growth. But Mr. Obama’s $3 billion pledge[http://www.gcfund.org/fileadmin/00_customer/documents/Press/GCF_Press_Release_2014_11_15_US_pledge.pdf] to the Green Climate Fund, announced in his speech here, made that difficult.

The timing was clearly intended to prod other would-be donors, like Japan, which was expected to announce a contribution of up to $1.5 billion toward the fund’s total goal of $10 billion.

Mr. Obama seemed well aware of what he was doing. Australia and the United States, he said, both have bad track records on carbon emissions because they share a frontier tradition and an abundance of fossil fuels — “which means,” he said, “we’ve got to step up.”

That line drew a burst of applause from the audience. Australian officials listened respectfully but left little doubt where they stood afterward.

“Australia is a resources-exporting economy: coal, gas, uranium,” said Tim Nicholls, the treasurer and minister of trade of the State of Queensland. “We think a sensible debate is absolutely necessary, but we also think there is a future for coal, as there is for gas.”

Mr. Obama came to the meeting with another advantage: The American economy is growing more rapidly than most others, especially Japan’s and Europe’s. He said the United States would push for countries to pursue more expansionary economic policies to stimulate demand and create jobs.

“Over the last few years,” he said, “the United States has put more people back to work than all other advanced economies combined. But America can’t be expected to just carry the world economy on our back.”

Some economists predicted that Mr. Obama’s words would carry weight in a way that they did not in previous years because the United States is so obviously outperforming its peers.

“The rest of the world is looking at the United States with a degree of envy,” said Kenneth Rogoff, a professor of economics at Harvard. “The way that the U.S. has recovered, the way it relatively quickly handled its banking crisis, the shale revolution and so on.”

Still, it is not clear how long the afterglow from Mr. Obama’s trip will last. He must deal with Republicans who have vowed to fight him on issues from immigration reform to the Keystone XL[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/k/keystone_pipeline/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] pipeline. Many Democrats will not cheer his success if he manages to negotiate the Trans-Pacific Partnership.

Mr. Obama will also have to deal again with the crises in Syria and Iraq, where the Pentagon is sending more American troops, and in Ukraine, where there are new reports of Russian troops fighting inside the country.

Even in Brisbane, where he spoke hopefully of the reinvigorated American role in Asia, Mr. Obama referred to the other headaches he faced, singling out the international response to the “appalling” downing of a Malaysian jetliner in Ukraine, which killed 38 Australian citizens and residents.

* Obama and Aung San Suu Kyi Meet Again, With Battle Scars [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/15/world/asia/obama-aung-san-suu-kyi-myanmar.html]

* Obama Prods Myanmar Back Toward Democracy[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/14/world/asia/obama-will-try-to-push-myanmar-back-on-the-path-toward-democracy.html]

* Fruitful Visit by Obama Ends With a Lecture From Xi[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/13/world/asia/china-us-xi-jinping-obama-apec.html]

* U.S. and China Reach Climate Accord After Months of Talks[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/12/world/asia/china-us-xi-obama-apec.html]

President Obama and Angela Merkel, the German leader, at a Group of 20 meeting in Brisbane. | Chris Hyde/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141115eabg002p9


Editorial
Opinion; Sunday Review
The Shifting Ebola Epidemic
By THE EDITORIAL BOARD
521 words
16 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Recent gains in controlling the Ebola epidemic in West Africa have been encouraging, but they offer no reason for complacency. In Liberia, the hardest-hit country, the rate of new infections has declined in some areas, and several treatment units have been reporting empty beds for more than a month. But in adjacent Sierra Leone the number of new cases has shot upward, while in Guinea, where the epidemic started, the incidence of new cases appears to have stabilized over all, with growth in some districts and declines in others. All told, Ebola has infected more than 14,000 people in West Africa and killed more than 5,000 of them.

Liberia’s gains have been attributed to much safer burial practices, a vigorous campaign to educate the public on how to avoid infection, diagnostic tests that can quickly identify and isolate infected people, and teams that track down all of their contacts. As positive as these results are, there is no guarantee that they will hold. Liberia’s president, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, may have acted prematurely last Thursday when she announced[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/14/world/africa/president-ellen-johnson-sirleaf-ends-state-of-emergency.html] an end to a national state of emergency. The recent improvements were mostly in Monrovia, and new outbreaks have emerged in rural areas.

Alarmingly, the virus has twice been carried from Guinea into previously unaffected Mali. This is the kind of spread that experts have warned could lead to a widening epidemic throughout Africa unless it is tamped down quickly. An infected 2-year-old girl from Guinea died in Mali but does not seem to have spread the virus to others. An infected imam from Guinea died of Ebola in Mali, as have two others, including a nurse who treated him. Hundreds of others may have been infected at a ritual washing ceremony of the imam’s body or through other contact.

These developments suggest that donor nations need to increase their contributions of money, materials, and teams of doctors and nurses to fight the epidemic. Oxfam, an international aid organization, reported[http://www.oxfam.org/en/pressroom/pressreleases/2014-11-12/ebola-almost-half-g20-countries-have-failed-deliver] last Wednesday on the performance of members of the Group of 20 advanced and emerging economies. It said that four countries — Argentina, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia and Turkey — have yet to make any contribution and that four others — Brazil, India, Mexico and Russia — should be doing a lot more based on the size of their economies. It called on France to speed up its efforts in Guinea, a former French colony. It is hoping the issue of more aid will be discussed and acted on at the G-20 meeting in Brisbane, Australia, this weekend.

Given the changing shape of the epidemic, United Nations and American officials are considering a more nimble response that would deploy smaller, more geographically dispersed treatment centers, rather than complete all of the large treatment units that were planned. Some nonprofit groups recommend sending rapid-response teams by helicopter to remote villages. As the outbreak moves, international assistance must keep up with shifting needs.

Meet The New York Times’s Editorial Board »

* Ebola and the Lost Children of Sierra Leone[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/14/opinion/ebola-and-the-lost-children-of-sierra-leone.html]

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141115eabg003v4


IN TRANSIT
Travel Desk; SECTTR
Africa: Finding the Right Safari
By RACHEL LEE HARRIS
353 words
16 November 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
3
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Knowing how, when and where to book that first safari can be complicated, said Jennifer Goetz, a founder of Your African Safari, a new website dedicated to helping travelers research and locate a reliable safari company that's right for them.

Ms. Goetz, an avid safari traveler, and her partner, Javier Luque, a native of Tanzania, began testing the site last year with information and itineraries from operators they knew personally.

''We started by focusing on the main countries and parks,'' she said. ''Then we added some of the big tour operators as fodder, and before long, the site mushroomed.''

The website includes thousands of photos, reviews and articles by tour operators and journalists and offers users the chance to perform searches and compare itineraries from more than a thousand tour companies in 76 parks across 14 countries.

Users can ask for quotes from multiple companies at once and request more information through the site.

It's also an outlet for sharing experiences, good or bad, with others. ''I've been on many safaris, and there are a lot of rogue operators,'' Ms. Goetz said. ''There's not a lot of policing of that being done.''

She and Mr. Luque hope to incorporate lodges into the site soon, something every traveler on safari wants these days, she said.

Regarding Ebola, Ms. Goetz said she was happy to see an increase in articles dispelling its myths, including an article on her website reminding travelers of how difficult it is to contract the virus in an airplane.

It also notes that most countries in the south and east are conducting thorough screenings of travelers entering those countries, including temperature screenings, and that Kenya, Tanzania and South Africa, which receive the bulk of Africa's tourists, have not been affected by the virus and are not under any type of travel restriction or medical alert.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

A safari in Ngorongoro, in Tanzania. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YOUR AFRICAN SAFARI)

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141117eabg0005w


Book Review Desk; SECTBR
Best Sellers: Combined Print & E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, November 16th 2014
543 words
16 November 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
24
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the November 16, 2014 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending November 1, 2014. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (†) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers[http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers].

  Weeks
                              Best Sellers: Combined Print & E-Book Nonfiction

This Last On
Week Week List
  
1         1
YES PLEASE, by Amy Poehler. (Dey St./Morrow) A humorous miscellany from the comedian and actress, the “S.N.L.” alumna and star of “Parks and Recreation.”

2 1 6
KILLING PATTON, by Bill O'Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt) The host of “The O’Reilly Factor” recounts the strange death of Gen. George S. Patton in December 1945.

3 3 177
UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House) An Olympic runner’s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II.

4 2 5
NOT THAT KIND OF GIRL, by Lena Dunham. (Random House) A collection of revealing and often humorous personal essays from the creator and star of “Girls.”

5 4 24
THE BOYS IN THE BOAT, by Daniel James Brown. (Viking) The University of Washington’s eight-oar crew and their quest for gold at the 1936 Berlin Olympics.

6 6 4
BEING MORTAL, by Atul Gawande. (Metropolitan/Holt) The surgeon and New Yorker writer considers how doctors fail patients at the end of life, and how they can do better.

7  1
JETER UNFILTERED, by Derek Jeter with Anthony Bozza. (Jeter Publishing/Gallery Books) The Yankee shortstop and team captain looks back over his career, with photographs from his recently concluded final season, as well as older ones.

8  1
THE LAST STAND OF THE TIN CAN SAILORS, by James D. Hornfischer. (Bantam) An account of a naval battle during the campaign to liberate the Philippines in 1944.

9  1
DREAMERS AND DECEIVERS, by Glenn Beck with Kevin Balfe. (Threshold Editions/Mercury Radio Arts) More little-known stories from America’s past; a follow-up to “Miracles and Massacres.”

10 10 4
THE INNOVATORS, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon & Schuster) Studies of the people who created computers and the Internet, beginning in the 1840s.

11 5 2
FOOD, by Jim Gaffigan. (Crown Archetype) The comedian, author of “Dad Is Fat,” describes his relationship with his subject.

12 14 85
WILD, by Cheryl Strayed. (Knopf) A woman’s account of a life-changing 1,100-mile hike along the Pacific Crest Trail during the summer of 1995.

13  1
JACQUELINE BOUVIER KENNEDY ONASSIS, by Barbara Leaming. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin’s) The former first lady’s struggles after John Kennedy’s assassination.

14  1
THE SECRET HISTORY OF WONDER WOMAN, by Jill Lepore. (Knopf) The Harvard historian and New Yorker writer argues that Wonder Woman’s creator was influenced by early feminists.

15 7 7
THE HOT ZONE, by Richard Preston. (Anchor) The discovery of the Ebola virus, and the efforts to keep it from spreading; first published in 1994.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141117eabg000bs


Book Review Desk; SECTBR
Best Sellers: Paperback Nonfiction: Sunday, November 16th 2014
375 words
16 November 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
99
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the November 16, 2014 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending November 1, 2014. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (†) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers[http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers].

 Weeks
                              Best Sellers: Paperback Nonfiction

This On
Week List
  
1    14
UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House) An Olympic runner’s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II after his plane went down over the Pacific.

2 23
THE BOYS IN THE BOAT, by Daniel James Brown. (Penguin) A group of American rowers pursued gold at the 1936 Berlin Olympic Games.

3 1
GEORGE WASHINGTON'S SECRET SIX, by Brian Kilmeade and Don Yaeger. (Sentinel) The story of the Culper spy ring, which aided the American cause during the Revolution.

4* 3
RISE OF ISIS, by Jay Sekulow with Jordan Sekulow and others. (Howard Books) An examination of the jihadist group and a warning about its dangers.

5 84
WILD, by Cheryl Strayed. (Vintage) A woman’s account of the life-changing 1,100-mile solo hike she took along the Pacific Crest Trail in 1995.

6 54
THE HOT ZONE, by Richard Preston. (Anchor) The discovery of the Ebola virus, and the efforts to keep it from spreading; first published in 1994.

7 2
THE MAP OF HEAVEN, by Eben Alexander with Ptolemy Tompkins. (Simon & Schuster) An exploration of spirituality and the afterlife, from the author of "Proof of Heaven."

8* 43
THE POWER OF HABIT, by Charles Duhigg. (Random House) An examination of the science behind habits, how we form them and break them.

9 3
THIS IS THE STORY OF A HAPPY MARRIAGE, by Ann Patchett. (Harper Perennial) A collection of personal essays, by the author of “Bel Canto” and “State of Wonder.”

10* 176
OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown) Why some people succeed — it has to do with luck and opportunities as well as talent.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141117eabg000bu


SR
THE SHIFTING EBOLA EPIDEMIC
49 words
16 November 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
8
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Editorial warns that gains in controlling Ebola epidemic in West Africa are no reason for complacency; expresses alarm that virus has twice been carried from Guinea into previously unaffected Mali; maintains international assistance must keep up with shifting needs as the outbreak moves. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141121eabg0001g


edit
The shifting Ebola epidemic
309 words
17 November 2014
International New York Times
INHT
6
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Recent gains in controlling the Ebola epidemic in West Africa have been encouraging, but they offer no reason for complacency. In Liberia, the hardest-hit country, the rate of new infections has declined in some areas, and several treatment units have been reporting empty beds for more than a month. But in adjacent Sierra Leone the number of new cases has shot upward, while in Guinea, where the epidemic started, the incidence of new cases appears to have stabilized with growth in some districts and declines in others. All told, Ebola has infected more than 14,000 people in West Africa and killed more than 5,000 of them.

Liberia’s gains have been attributed to much safer burial practices, a vigorous campaign to educate the public on how to avoid infection, diagnostic tests that can quickly identify and isolate infected people, and teams that track down all of their contacts. As positive as these results are, there is no guarantee that they will hold. Liberia’s president, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, may have acted prematurely last Thursday when she announced an end to a national state of emergency. The recent improvements were mostly in Monrovia, and new outbreaks have emerged in rural areas.

Alarmingly, the virus has twice been carried from Guinea into previously unaffected Mali. This is the kind of spread that experts have warned could lead to a widening epidemic throughout Africa unless it is tamped down quickly.

Given the changing shape of the epidemic, United Nations and American officials are considering a more nimble response that would deploy smaller, more geographically dispersed treatment centers, rather than complete all of the large treatment units that were planned. Some nonprofit groups recommend sending rapid-response teams by helicopter to remote villages. As the outbreak moves, international assistance must keep up with shifting needs.

International Herald Tribune

Document INHT000020141116eabh0000f


edit
The Nigerian status quo
By ADEWALE MAJA-PEARCE
is a writer and critic, and the author, most recently, of the memoir ‘‘The House My Father Built.’’
1071 words
17 November 2014
International New York Times
INHT
6
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The current Nigerian government is widely seen as the most corrupt since independence from Britain in 1960. Ordinarily, this would be a huge problem for President Goodluck Jonathan and his People’s Democratic Party, which has been continuously in power since the end of military rule in 1999. But things are unlikely to change. To many Nigerians, it sometimes seems as if we merely swapped military dictatorship for a one-party state.

Mr. Jonathan’s name will be on the ballot this February, when Nigerians, many of them fed up with government corruption and incompetence, go to the polls. Yet events percolating across the country that could come to a boil within the next three months might actually work to the president’s advantage. Two grave problems — the Boko Haram insurgency and tensions in the oil-rich Niger Delta — hang over the land. A third, West Africa’s Ebola crisis, seems to have been contained so far, and though this has little to do with Mr. Jonathan’s leadership, the people responsible for it are unlikely to gain any political capital at his expense.

The incompetence of Mr. Jonathan’s government is most clearly seen in its inability to rescue the 276 schoolgirls, most of them believed to be Christians, who were kidnapped by Boko Haram insurgents in the largely Islamic north last April. Even at the time, the president, himself a Christian from the largely Christian south, didn’t seem much concerned about their fate.It took him almost three weeks to officially acknowledge what had happened, whereupon he belatedly invited their relatives to lunch at the presidential villa in Abuja, an event which one journalist likened to ‘‘a wedding reception,’’ complete with bunting and a band.

What Mr. Jonathan didn’t count upon was the international furor over the kidnappingsor the powerful worldwide publicity, negative in his case, of the #BringBackOurGirls campaign. Seven months later, most of the girls are still missing (though dozens have managed to escape). A report by Human Rights Watch catalogued the ‘‘physical and psychological abuse they were subjected to: forced labor, forced participation in military operations, including carrying ammunition or luring men into ambush; forced marriage to their captors; and sexual abuse, including rape.’’

Meanwhile, sporadic violence continues. Last week, a suicide bomber killed at least 48 students at a boys’ high school in the northeast. Rescuing the girls — or putting an end to the insurgency altogether — would certainly help Mr. Jonathan’s ambitions, but his government’s ability to do so seems most unlikely. Corruption and low morale have hobbled the military. Even so, the government announced last month that the extremists had agreed to a cease-fire, though Boko Haram has denied it.

Although the extremists have been widely condemned by leading Muslim clerics and politicians, the insurgency contributes to Christian suspicions of their Muslim compatriots, and this may well play into Mr. Jonathan’s hands come election time.

But in an effort to bridge sectarian divisions and garner votes across the religious divide, the country’s leading opposition parties, one from the largely Muslim northeast, the other from the mostly Christian southwest, have joined forces with other groups to form the All Progressives Congress. In theory, this gives the opposition a fighting chance of wresting control of the Senate and House of Representatives from the People’s Democratic Party.

Unfortunately, efforts to make common cause in Nigeria are invariably sacrificed upon the altars of religion and ethnicity. The alliance’s likely presidential candidate is a Muslim northerner, Muhammadu Buhari. He also happens to be a former dictator, who ruled Nigeria for 20 months in the mid-1980s. His administration came to an abrupt end in August 1985, when members of his cabinet, alienated by his efforts to root out corruption, forced him out. Though widely unpopular, many Nigerians feel he has the credentials to tackle corruption. Moreover, one potential running mate is Babatunde Raji Fashola, the two-term governor of Lagos State who has distinguished himself by successfully tackling the incipient Ebola crisiswith the same energy and efficiency that he brought to modernizing the infrastructure of Lagos, the biggest port in West Africa. But there are also doubts about his commitment to clean government, fueled by the fact that he is a protègé of Ahmed Bola Tinubu, a former governor of the same state and a founding member of the All Progressives Congress whose reputation has been tarnished by corruption scandals, even though he has never been convicted of corruption.

Though Mr. Fashola is a Muslim with a Catholic wife, few Christians (or for that matter even the generally more-liberally minded Muslims of the south) would be inclined to vote for a Muslim-Muslim ticket.

Religious differences are a key factor in voting, but perhaps patronage plays a greater role, a lesson Mr. Jonathan learned in the Niger Delta, where he taught school and gained political prominence. Like any savvy politician, he knows that patronage is a two-way street, and he has been careful to keep the money flowing in a region plagued by resentment over oil rights, piracy and periodic unrest.

Oil is Nigeria’s greatest source of wealth, providing about 90 percent of the nation’s foreign exchange earnings, but many people among the delta’s diverse ethnic groups feel that the central government has seized control of their oil without adequate compensation. The government says it loses about $3 billion a year due to piracy, widely seen as aided and abetted by the military. Local gangs also take what they can by tapping pipelines. In the past, anger over corruption and the unfair redistribution of wealth has fueled a dangerous political militancy. Everyone knows that if the militants want to, they can easily stop oil production, which would bankrupt the country.

Thus Mr. Jonathan takes care to ensure that the region is well looked after, and this contributes to his enormous popularity there. Indeed, he is widely seen as crucial to keeping the lid on potential unrest. In the words of Mujahid Dokubo-Asari, a former leader of the Niger Delta People’s Volunteer Force who is now a key supporter, if Mr. Jonathan is not re-elected next year, there will be ‘‘blood in the streets.’’

International Herald Tribune

Document INHT000020141116eabh0000i


Dandano Journal
World; Africa
Fear of Ebola Opens Wary Villages to Outsiders in Guinea
By ADAM NOSSITER
1404 words
17 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
DANDANO, Guinea — “Bring out your sick!” the chief shouted angrily at the crowd, shaking his fist and warning of illness and death for the whole village if it did not obey.

“Don’t hide them!” he yelled. “If you don’t expose them, you will suffer!”

Slowly, haggard and dazed, a procession trudged to the muddy village center — a student, a minibus driver, a 5-year-old girl and farmers — with bloodshot eyes[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/symptoms/eye-redness/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] betraying the symptoms of Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier]. They walked alone, two village elders flanking them at a wary distance. The crowd edged away fearfully.

Then something just as unusual happened: A Red Cross team went to work freely, tossing water bags to the sick, sheathing them in plastic robes, rubber gloves and face masks. They were taken away down a rough dirt road by a waiting ambulance.

“There are many, and they are still hidden,” said a Red Cross nurse, climbing in.

This remote, mountainous part of Guinea[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/guinea/index.html?inline=nyt-geo] is where the world’s worst Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] outbreak began nearly a year ago, in villages hidden by dense forest, high reeds — and a long history of resistance to the distant central government.

Throughout the epidemic, villages like this one have been steadfastly cut off from the outside world. Residents in the region have killed local officials proselytizing about Ebola, blocked barely passable roads with trees and vehemently refused help[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/28/world/africa/ebola-epidemic-west-africa-guinea.html] from outsiders, viewing them as propagators of the virus in moon suits of protective gear.

But now, in Guinea’s inaccessible Forest Region, where staunch resistance has stymied efforts to fight the outbreak since its inception, villagers are finally opening up, surrendering their sick and dead after being battered by the virus.

“We said ‘no’ because when there is a situation where you don’t know the details, you resist; we were afraid,” said Lavillé Sakovogui, one of the village elders here.

But villagers kept dying.

“We are in a crisis here,” said the village chief, Siba Koevogui. “You’ve got to send help.”

The consequences of resistance have been disastrous. Though the refusal to acknowledge and help fight the disease appears to be dissipating, health officials and local authorities say, the resistance has already done its work, allowing the disease to spread unchecked for months on end.

After so much time, tracking down Ebola victims and everyone who had contact with them — the traditional method for halting outbreaks — has become all the more difficult.

“Since these villages have been closed for such a long time, it is out of control,” said Sara Tomczyk, an epidemiologist for the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the district capital, Macenta, three hours away on a bad road.

At first, the region’s resistance was passive, born of fear.

“The people could just go hide in the bush” to avoid health workers, said Pascal Piguet, a Doctors Without Borders official in the adjoining district, Guéckédou, where the outbreak was first identified in March. “They thought we were the vectors.”

But the outbreak, instead of petering out in the spring, as many international health officials believed it had, continued coming in waves, intensifying the residents’ distrust of the government and international health workers. Soon, their resistance turned into something more violent.

Vehicles belonging to Doctors Without Borders were pelted with stones. In September, eight officials and local journalists, part of a delegation sent to warn of Ebola’s dangers, were killed by a mob in the village of Womey, the dismembered bodies dumped in a septic tank. In another village, Koyama, the highest-ranking district official was held hostage for hours under a hail of stones. It became impossible for the Red Cross and other international teams to enter villages to retrieve sick people or bodies.

A long, tense history of antagonism with the government fueled the clashes. The state tried to stamp out traditional religious practices in Guinea’s Forest Region in the 1960s and 1970s, seeding a hatred of officials that still festers. “State officials went from village to village, burning masks used in initiations and village sacrifices,” wrote Mike McGovern, a University of Michigan political anthropologist, in the book “Unmasking the State: Making Guinea Modern.”

Now, with the Ebola epidemic refusing to go away, the tide of resistance appears to be turning. Transmission of the disease is still “persistent” and “intense” in Guinea, the World Health Organization said in its latest report, and there have been more than 1,000 deaths. The district in which the village of Dandano is situated, Macenta, is the worst-hit in the country.

It is too soon to say whether the new change in attitude, fostered over weeks of negotiations, will make a difference against the outbreak in the region where it began.

“When they open, they open slowly,” said Michele Telaro, the Doctors Without Borders leader in Macenta.

But it is clear to officials that there is little hope of fighting the disease until the distrust is overcome.

“The greatest danger is this reticence,” said Dr. Daniel Yota, the W.H.O. leader in Macenta. “In three weeks, we could contain it, if every village opened up.”

Amara Cissé, an elder in another village in the Macenta district that has opened in recent days, stood in front of solemn-faced residents last week and said: “We were wrong. But we didn’t understand the cause of this sickness.”

Twenty-eight people died in the village, Dzomankoidu, before a wooden barrier blocking the road was dismantled. Now, three more suspected cases, including a little boy and his father, stumbled weakly into a van headed to a Doctors Without Borders triage center in Macenta as the residents watched apprehensively. The boy’s mother bade him and his father a tearful goodbye. (The boy died the next day, according to Doctors Without Borders, and the mother later tested positive for the disease.)

As the patients were gathered, a local health official warned residents to back away. His colleagues complained that if the villagers had accepted them earlier, lives would have been saved.

“We refused them, because of what was being said; people said that if you send 20 away, 19 would die,” said Mr. Cissé, referring to the low survival rates of people with Ebola, even in some treatment centers.

In Dandano, it took a quick succession of deaths through October to overcome the resistance. Barely a month ago, people in the village were burying unprotected bodies themselves, barehanded.

Now, the villagers are so fearful of the virus that they gave a wide berth to two corpses lying in the street, even after the bodies had been “prepared,” in the local Red Cross parlance: bagged in thick plastic sacks and sprayed with chlorine.

Open, darkened doorways around these new corpses spoke to emptied houses: The occupants had fled into the bush in fear of the disease.

“I’m afraid, and everyone I know is afraid,” said Sagno Marah, a 38-year-old gold miner, as the chief harangued his flock in the center of the village.

In less than three weeks, at least 15 people in Dandano, population 2,000, had died.

“For three weeks we negotiated with the religious leaders,” said the district health officer, Dr. Pévé Goepogue. “It didn’t work.”

Finally, “when the deaths started to really multiply,” he added, “it became alarming to them. The elders came toward the deputy-prefect and declared Dandano open.”

With a constellation of remote villages off the radar of surveillance, health officials are convinced that the disease is simmering in places they have not yet reached. One rainy night last week, a motorcycle taxi deposited a middle-aged woman on the steps of the hospital in Macenta. The driver fled.

The woman bent over on the steps, breathing heavily and uttering sharp cries. When she got up unsteadily, stumbling, the hospital workers on the porch scattered. Doctors Without Borders workers carried her off in a stretcher. She had just enough strength to say that she had come from a village on the Liberian border, hours away on dirt roads. Then, later in the evening, she died.

* Fear of Ebola Drives Mob to Kill Officials in Guinea[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/19/world/africa/fear-of-ebola-drives-mob-to-kill-officials-in-guinea.html]

* Tracing Ebola’s Breakout to an African 2-Year-Old[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/10/world/africa/tracing-ebolas-breakout-to-an-african-2-year-old.html]

* Fear of Ebola Breeds a Terror of Physicians[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/28/world/africa/ebola-epidemic-west-africa-guinea.html]

* Ebola Reaches Capital of Guinea, Stirring Fears[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/04/02/world/africa/ebola-reaches-guinean-capital-stirring-fears.html]

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141117eabh000m9


Editorial
Opinion
La fuga de cerebros en Cuba, cortesía de EE.UU.
By EL COMITÉ EDITORIAL
1053 words
17 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
El Secretario de Estado John Kerry y la embajadora estadounidense ante Naciones Unidas, Samantha Power, han elogiado la contribución de médicos cubanos que atienden a pacientes con ébola en África occidental. Los Centros para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades, una agencia federal norteamericana, recientemente envió a un funcionario a una reunión regional organizada por el Gobierno cubano en La Habana, para coordinar la lucha contra la epidemia. En África, los médicos cubanos están laborando en instalaciones construidas por Estados Unidos. El virus ha tenido el inesperado efecto de inyectarle sentido común a una relación innecesariamente tóxica.

Sin embargo, los médicos que trabajan en África occidental hoy podrían fácilmente abandonar sus obligaciones, tomar un taxi a la embajada estadounidense más cercana y solicitar estatus migratorio, mediante un programa que ha permitido miles de deserciones. De ser aprobados, pueden ingresar a Estados Unidos en cuestión de semanas, a pocos años de convertirse en ciudadanos estadounidenses.

Hay muchos aspectos condenables de las políticas fallidas de Estados Unidos respecto a Cuba y el embargo que impone a la isla desde hace décadas. Pero el programa que incentiva la migración de personal médico durante asignaciones oficiales en el exterior es particularmente difícil de justificar. Durante el recién terminado año fiscal, 1,278 profesionales médicos, un número récord, obtuvieron autorización de inmigrar.

Es incongruente que Estados Unidos valore las contribuciones de los médicos cubanos enviados por el gobierno para asistir en crisis mundiales, como aquella del terremoto en Haití en 2010, mientras procura desestabilizar al estado facilitando las deserciones.

El sistema migratorio estadounidense debe darles prioridad a los refugiados y a las personas perseguidas más vulnerables del mundo. Pero no debe utilizarse para agravar la fuga de cerebros de una nación adversaria, sobre todo, cuando mejorar la relación entre los países es un objetivo viable y sensato.

El programa, diseñado por la rama ejecutiva, comenzó en agosto de 2006, cuando Emilio González, un exiliado cubano, firmemente opuesto al gobierno de la isla, estaba al mando del Servicio de Ciudadanía e Inmigración de Estados Unidos. González describió las condiciones laborales de los médicos como “tráfico de personas sancionado por el Estado”. En esa época, la administración Bush estaba procurando sabotear al Gobierno cubano. Facilitar la defección de médicos que participan en misiones en el exterior representa una oportunidad de atentar contra la principal herramienta diplomática de la isla y humillar al régimen de los Castro.

Cuba lleva varios años usando sus brigadas médicas como su principal fuente de ingresos y poder persuasivo. La isla tiene uno de los índices más altos de médicos per cápita en el mundo, y ofrece becas para cursar estudios de salud a cientos de estudiantes internacionales cada año. Entre ellos, ha habido algunos estadounidenses. Según cifras del Gobierno cubano, más de 440,000 habitantes en la isla de 11 millones están empleados en el sector de la salud.

La Habana obtiene petróleo subsidiado de Venezuela y dinero de varios países como remuneración por la atención médica que brinda. Este año, según el diario estatal Granma, el gobierno espera recibir $8,200 millones de dólares a cambio de la labor médica de su personal en el exterior. La gran mayoría de los que están desplazados actualmente, unos 46,000, trabajan en América Latina y el Caribe. Unos 4,000 están asignados a 32 naciones africanas.

Los profesionales médicos, como la mayoría de cubanos, ganan sueldos bajos. Este año, el gobierno aumentó el salario de los profesionales de la salud. Los médicos ahora ganan aproximadamente $60 dólares por mes y los enfermeros ganan unos $40 dólares por mes. Las asignaciones en el exterior representan una oportunidad de ganar sustancialmente más. Los doctores que trabajan actualmente en Brasil, por ejemplo, reciben aproximadamente $1,200 dólares por mes.

Los 256 profesionales médicos que atienden a pacientes con ébola en África occidental están recibiendo subsidios diarios de aproximadamente $240 dólares por parte de la Organización Mundial de la Salud. José Luis Di Fabio, el jefe de la misión de la OMS en La Habana, dijo que los médicos y enfermeros en África viajaron por voluntad propia. “Son voluntarios”, dijo durante una entrevista. “Hubo algunos que se echaron para atrás y no hubo problema”.

Algunos médicos que han desertado dicen que las asignaciones en el exterior han tenido un elemento implícito de coerción, y se han quejado porque el Gobierno cubano se embolsilla la mayor parte del dinero que genera sus servicios. Sin embargo, el Departamento de Estado dice en su más reciente informe sobre tráfico de personas que la supuesta coerción de profesionales médicos cubanos “no parece reflejar una política uniforme del gobierno”. Aún así, La Habana podría pagarle a su personal en el exterior de manera más generosa si las brigadas médicas van a seguir representando una importante fuente de ingresos.

El año pasado, el gobierno cubano flexibilizó las restricciones migratorias, autorizando que la mayoría de sus ciudadanos, incluso los disidentes, pudieran salir y entrar al país libremente. Los médicos, quienes en el pasado eran sujeto de restricciones más estrictas, también pueden viajar sin mayores problemas actualmente. Estados Unidos reserva 20,000 visas de inmigración para cubanos en la isla cada año. Adicionalmente, quienes logran llegar por vías irregulares, automáticamente adquieren la residencia legal.

El gobierno cubano considera el programa de defección de médicos como un símbolo de duplicidad por parte de Estados Unidos. Inhibe la capacidad de Cuba a la hora de contribuir en crisis internacionales y no ayuda, en lo mínimo, a crear una sociedad más abierta o democrática. Mientras se mantenga esta política incoherente, establecer una relación más saludable entre ambas naciones va a seguir siendo difícil.

Como un creciente número de cubanos, a muchos profesionales médicos seguramente les seguirá interesando la posibilidad de emigrar a Estados Unidos en busca de mejores oportunidades, y están en su derecho de hacerlo. Pero invitarlos a desertar durante misiones en el exterior es excesivo.

Leer en inglés (Read in English) »[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/17/opinion/a-cuban-brain-drain-courtesy-of-us.html]

* Tiempo de acabar el embargo de Cuba[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/12/opinion/sunday/tiempo-de-acabar-el-embargo-de-cuba.html]

* Aún reflexionando sobre relaciones con EE.UU., Fidel Castro responde[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/15/opinion/-an-reflexionando-sobre-relaciones-con-eeuu-fidel-castro-responde.html]

* Los cambios electorales respecto a Cuba[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/26/opinion/sunday/los-cambios-electorales-respecto-a-cuba.html]

* Un canje de presos con Cuba[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/03/opinion/un-canje-de-presos-con-cuba.html]

* En Cuba, desventuras al intentar derrocar un régimen[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/10/opinion/en-cuba-desventuras-al-intentar-derrocar-un-rgimen.html]

Médicos cubanos en Sierra Leona en octubre. | Florian Plaucheur/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141117eabh000mh


Editorial
Opinion
A Cuban Brain Drain, Courtesy of U.S.
By THE EDITORIAL BOARD
975 words
17 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Secretary of State John Kerry and the American ambassador to the United Nations, Samantha Power, have praised[http://www.state.gov/secretary/remarks/2014/10/233091.htm] the work of Cuban doctors dispatched to treat Ebola patients in West Africa. The Centers for Disease Control and Preventionrecently sent an official[http://takingnote.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/10/31/u-s-and-cuba-come-together-over-ebola-infuriating-republicans/] to a regional meeting the Cuban government convened in Havana to coordinate efforts to fight the disease.

In Africa, Cuban doctors are working in American-built facilities.[http://www.voanews.com/content/cuban-doctors-help-fight-ebola-in-liberia-/2504736.html] The epidemic has had the unexpected effect of injecting common sense[http://takingnote.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/10/22/the-u-s-will-collaborate-with-cuba-on-ebola/] into an unnecessarily poisonous relationship.

And yet, Cuban doctors serving in West Africa today could easily abandon their posts, take a taxi to the nearest American Embassy and apply for a little-known immigration program[http://www.state.gov/p/wha/rls/fs/2009/115414.htm] that has allowed thousands of them to defect. Those that are accepted can be on American soil within weeks[http://qa-env.www.uscis.gov/files/pressrelease/CubanMedPrf091906.pdf], on track to becoming United States citizens.

There is much to criticize about Washington’s failed policies toward Cuba and the embargo[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/12/opinion/sunday/end-the-us-embargo-on-cuba.html] it has imposed on the island for decades. But the Cuban Medical Professional Parole Program, which in the last fiscal year enabled 1,278 Cubans to defect while on overseas assignments, a record number, is particularly hard to justify.

It is incongruous for the United States to value the contributions of Cuban doctors who are sent by their government to assist in international crises like the 2010 Haiti earthquake[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/11/08/world/americas/in-haitis-cholera-fight-cuba-takes-lead-role.html] while working to subvert that government by making defection so easy.

American immigration policy should give priority to the world’s neediest refugees and persecuted people. It should not be used to exacerbate the brain drain of an adversarial nation at a time when improved relations between the two countries is a worthwhile, realistic goal.

The program was introduced through executive authority in August 2006, when Emilio González, a hard-line Cuban exile, was at the helm of the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services. Mr. González described the labor of Cuban doctors abroad as “state-sponsored human trafficking[http://online.wsj.com.proxy.bc.edu/articles/SB10001424052970203731004576045640711118766].” At the time, the Bush administration was trying to cripple the Cuban government[http://www.pbs.org/newshour/bb/latin_america-july-dec07-cuba_10-24/]. Easily enabling medical personnel posted abroad to defect represented an opportunity to strike at the core of the island’s primary diplomatic tool, while embarrassing the Castro regime.

Cuba has been using its medical corps as the nation’s main source of revenue and soft power for many years. The country has one of the highest numbers of doctors per capita in the world and offers medical scholarships to hundreds of disadvantaged international students each year, and some have been from the United States.[http://www-ncbi-nlm-nih-gov.proxy.bc.edu/pmc/articles/PMC81080/] According to Cuban government figures, more than 440,000 of the island’s 11 million citizens are employed in the health sector.

Havana gets subsidized oil from Venezuela and money from several other countries in exchange for medical services. This year, according to the state-run newspaper Granma[http://www.granma.cu/cuba/2014-03-21/aprobo-consejo-de-ministros-incremento-salarial-para-el-sector-de-la-salud], the government expects to make $8.2 billion from its medical workers overseas. The vast majority, just under 46,000, are posted in Latin America and the Caribbean. A few thousand are in 32 African countries.

Medical professionals, like most Cubans, earn meager wages. Earlier this year, the government raised the salaries of medical workers. Doctors now earn about $60 per month, while nurses make nearly $40. Overseas postings allows these health care workers to earn significantly more. Doctors in Brazil, for example, are making about $1,200 per month.

The 256 Cuban medical professionals treating Ebola patients in West Africa are getting daily stipends of roughly $240 from the World Health Organization. José Luis Di Fabio, the head of the W.H.O. in Havana, said he was confident the doctors and nurses dispatched to Africa have gone on their own volition. “It was voluntary,” Mr. Di Fabio, an Uruguayan whose organization has overseen their deployment, said in an interview. “Some backtracked at the last minute and there was no problem.”

Some doctors who have defected say they felt the overseas tours had an implicit element of coercion and have complained[http://online.wsj.com.proxy.bc.edu/articles/SB10001424052702303496804579367323172831810] that the government pockets the bulk of the money it gets for their services. But the State Department says in its latest report on human trafficking[http://www.state.gov/j/tip/rls/tiprpt/countries/2014/226708.htm] that reported coercion of Cuban medical personnel does “not appear to reflect a uniform government policy.” Even so, the Cuban government would be wise to compensate medical personnel more generously if their work overseas is to remain the island’s economic bedrock.

Last year, the Cuban government liberalized its travel policies,[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/14/world/americas/new-rules-allow-cubans-to-keep-residency-amid-travel.html] allowing most citizens, including dissidents, to leave the country freely. Doctors, who in the past faced stricter travel restrictions than ordinary Cubans, no longer do. Some 20,000 Cubans are allowed to immigrate to the United States yearly. In addition, those who manage to arrive here in rafts or through border crossing points are automatically authorized to stay.

••

The Cuban government has long regarded the medical defection program as a symbol of American duplicity. It undermines Cuba’s ability to respond to humanitarian crises and does nothing to make the government in Havana more open or democratic. As long as this incoherent policy is in place, establishing a healthier relationship between the two nations will be harder.

Many medical professionals, like a growing number of Cubans[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/10/us/sharp-rise-in-cuban-migration-stirs-worries-of-a-mass-exodus.html?hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&version=LargeMediaHeadlineSum&module=photo-spot-region®ion=top-news&WT.nav=top-news], will continue to want to move to the United States in search of new opportunities, and they have every right to do so. But inviting them to defect while on overseas tours is going too far.

Leer en español (Read in Spanish) »[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/03/opinion/la-fuga-de-cerebros-en-cuba-cortesa-de-eeuu.html]

Meet The New York Times’s Editorial Board »

* Obama Should End the Embargo on Cuba[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/12/opinion/sunday/end-the-us-embargo-on-cuba.html]

* Still Pondering U.S.-Cuba Relations, Fidel Castro Responds[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/15/opinion/still-pondering-us-cuba-relations-fidel-castro-responds.html]

* The Shifting Politics of Cuba Policy [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/26/opinion/sunday/the-shifting-politics-of-cuba-policy.html]

* A Prisoner Swap With Cuba [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/03/opinion/a-prisoner-swap-with-cuba.html]

* In Cuba, Misadventures in Regime Change[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/10/opinion/in-cuba-misadventures-in-regime-change.html]

Cuban health workers in Sierra Leone in October. | Florian Plaucheur/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141117eabh000mi


Op-Ed Columnist
Opinion
When Government Succeeds
By PAUL KRUGMAN
823 words
17 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The great American Ebola freakout of 2014 seems to be over. The disease is still ravaging Africa, and as with any epidemic, there’s always a risk of a renewed outbreak. But there haven’t been any new U.S. cases for a while, and popular anxiety is fading fast.

Before we move on, however, let’s try to learn something from the panic.

When the freakout was at its peak, Ebola wasn’t just a disease — it was a political metaphor. It was, specifically, held up by America’s right wing[http://www.newrepublic.com/article/119851/republicans-spread-ebola-paranoia-blame-obama-ahead-midterms] as a symbol of government failure. The usual suspects claimed that the Obama administration was falling down on the job, but more than that, they insisted that conventional policy was incapable of dealing with the situation. Leading Republicans suggested ignoring everything we know about disease control and resorting to extreme measures like travel bans, while mocking claims that health officials knew what they were doing.

Guess what: Those officials actually did know what they were doing. The real lesson of the Ebola story is that sometimes public policy is succeeding even while partisans are screaming about failure. And it’s not the only recent story along those lines.

Here’s another: Remember Solyndra? It was a renewable-energy firm that borrowed money using Department of Energy guarantees, then went bust, costing the Treasury $528 million. And conservatives have pounded on that loss relentlessly, turning it into a symbol of what they claim is rampant crony capitalism and a huge waste of taxpayer money.

Defenders of the energy program tried in vain to point out that anyone who makes a lot of investments, whether it’s the government or a private venture capitalist, is going to see some of those investments go bad. For example, Warren Buffett is an investing legend, with good reason — but even he has had his share of lemons, like the $873 million loss[http://fortune.com/2014/03/01/buffett-lost-nearly-900-million-exiting-biggest-buyout-ever/] he announced earlier this year on his investment in a Texas energy company. Yes, that’s half again as big as the federal loss on Solyndra.

The question is not whether the Department of Energy has made some bad loans — if it hasn’t, it’s not taking enough risks. It’s whether it has a pattern of bad loans. And the answer, it turns out, is no. Last week the department revealed that the program that included Solyndra is, in fact, on track to return profits of $5 billion[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2014-11-12/u-s-expects-5-billion-from-program-that-funded-solyndra.html] or more.

Then there’s health reform. As usual, much of the national dialogue over the Affordable Care Act is being dominated by fake scandals[http://www.vox.com/2014/11/15/7221397/jon-gruber-grubergate-obamacare] drummed up by the enemies of reform. But if you look at the actual results so far, they’re remarkably good. The number of Americans without health insurance has dropped sharply[http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/10/29/upshot/obamacare-who-was-helped-most.html?abt=0002&abg=1&_r=0], with around 10 million of the previously uninsured now covered; the program’s costs remain below expectations, with average premium rises[http://thinkprogress.org/health/2014/11/14/3592724/obamacare-premiums-to-increase-by-less-than-4-percent-on-average/] for next year well below historical rates of increase; and a new Gallup survey[http://www.gallup.com/poll/179396/newly-insured-exchanges-give-coverage-good-marks.aspx] finds that the newly insured are very satisfied with their coverage. By any normal standards, this is a dramatic example of policy success, verging on policy triumph.

One last item: Remember all the mockery of Obama administration assertions that budget deficits, which soared during the financial crisis, would come down as the economy recovered? Surely the exploding costs of Obamacare, combined with a stimulus program that would become a perpetual boondoggle, would lead to vast amounts of red ink, right? Well, no — the deficit has indeed come down rapidly[http://cbo.gov/publication/45653], and as a share of G.D.P. it’s back down to pre-crisis levels.

The moral of these stories is not that the government is always right and always succeeds. Of course there are bad decisions and bad programs. But modern American political discourse is dominated by cheap cynicism about public policy, a free-floating contempt for any and all efforts to improve our lives. And this cheap cynicism is completely unjustified. It’s true that government-hating politicians can sometimes turn their predictions of failure into self-fulfilling prophecies, but when leaders want to make government work, they can.

And let’s be clear: The government policies we’re talking about here are hugely important. We need serious public health policy, not fear-mongering, to contain infectious disease. We need government action to promote renewable energy and fight climate change. Government programs are the only realistic answer for tens of millions of Americans who would otherwise be denied essential health care.

Conservatives want you to believe that while the goals of public programs on health, energy and more may be laudable, experience shows that such programs are doomed to failure. Don’t believe them. Yes, sometimes government officials, being human, get things wrong. But we’re actually surrounded by examples of government success, which they don’t want you to notice.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141117eabh000p1


CITY ROOM
Metropolitan Desk; SECTA
When Ebola Fears Hit the Neighborhood
By KELSEY WARNER
444 words
17 November 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
22
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Dear Diary:

Ebola came to the apartment building across 147th Street on Oct. 24. As Dr. Craig Spencer took his temperature across the way, I was battling cockroaches and on the phone with my super, begging him to turn off the heat. I walked by his apartment on my way to a lecture at school. I asked a guy with a notebook what was going on.

The roaches that had made themselves apparent that day were so gross with their mysterious skittering, and now seemed all the more contagious with the news. All those recent stories about New York rats and bacteria. Now this. Good grief. The heat -- the pipes clanking, the windows fogging -- now carried notes of a faraway virus. No chance of catching it, but still. Welcome to New York.

West 147th Street was unusually quiet for the homecoming of a global health crisis. It was reporters mostly. The usual after-school block riot was mute. As the news got out, a few neighbors stood on stoops and on the edge of curbs. One man, on a bike, who called himself El Dragone, shouted to a cameraman from Mashable and two reporters from city dailies, and me: ''It's not a virus, it's a plague.''

A virus of the body and what? A plague of the Western imagination? He wheeled off. [Dr. Spencer was declared free of the virus and set to be discharged from Bellevue Hospital Center on Tuesday.]

One neighbor, a friendly cable guy, said, ''It hits home.''

Is this my home? I wonder.

I went back to my apartment and opened a window. My cat sat on the sill. We were in an atmosphere of proximate, impossible danger and fleeting community. A big big island and all was quiet on 147th. Good luck, Dr. Spencer.

Read all recent entries and our updated submissions guidelines. Reach us via email diary@nytimes.com or follow @NYTMetro on Twitter using the hashtag #MetDiary.

Observations for this column may be sent to Metropolitan Diary at

diary@nytimes.com or to The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. Please include your name, mailing address and daytime telephone number; upon request, names may be withheld in print. Submissions become the property of The Times and cannot be returned. They may be edited, and may be republished and adapted in all media. The diary archive can be found at nytimes.com/diary.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY VICTOR KERLOW)

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141117eabh000f6


TELEVISION REVIEW
The Arts/Cultural Desk; SECTC
A Portfolio With Room for Partying
By ALESSANDRA STANLEY
801 words
17 November 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
1
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Three major broadcast networks now have a series about a high-powered woman in the administration -- or near it, since Olivia Pope, the heroine of ''Scandal,'' is in and out of the Oval Office as the president's off-and-on mistress and consultant.

Besides bold, beautiful heroines, these dramas have something else in common, namely hidden, ugly government conspiracies.

Italians have a word, ''dietrologia,'' for the art of always finding a more sinister explanation behind the official one. And in the age of terrorism, Ebola and legalized marijuana, Americans may well have grown more paranoid. But dietrologia has become the nicotine of television drama. High-level conspiracies may be banal and unconvincing, but they fuel the craving to watch and see what happens.

''State of Affairs,'' which begins Monday on NBC, is the latest cabal-minded series, and it looks like a pastiche of the other two.

It stars Katherine Heigl, an alumna of ''Grey's Anatomy,'' as Charleston Tucker, the president's most trusted national security adviser. The series has some of the sex and high-stepping melodrama of ''Scandal'' on ABC, but it's actually closer in spirit to ''Madam Secretary,'' the CBS series that stars Téa Leoni as Elizabeth McCord, a maverick secretary of state who suspects that the death of her predecessor was no accident. Like Elizabeth, Charlie, as Charleston is known, is more enmeshed in current affairs than extramarital ones.

The narrative of ''State of Affairs'' is not as outré as the one in ''Scandal,'' but it's still preposterous and at times laughable. That's not a disqualifier; it's pretty much a prerequisite for a network action-adventure series. Plausibility isn't the measure, panache is. The Fox series ''24'' in its heyday had it. So does ''Scandal.'' Now, ''The Blacklist'' on NBC has it -- mostly because James Spader is the star.

Ms. Heigl doesn't have Mr. Spader's mystique or inimitable knowing air, so the lapses in logic and probability are all the more obvious.

Not that Charlie is easy to pin down. Trying to get over the death of her fiancé, who was killed in front of her during a terrorist attack in Afghanistan, Charlie leads a double life -- hard-drinking playgirl by night, hard-driving intelligence analyst by day.

A watered-down version of Carrie Mathison from ''Homeland,'' Charlie takes a lot of liberties at work as well as play but gets away with it because of her privileged relationship with President Constance Payton (Alfre Woodard), the mother of her fiancé.

Charlie's therapist tells her that she is repressing what really happened the night her fiancé was killed, and, of course, there is more to the story.

Not everything in the show is outlandish; some events are all too realistic. In the pilot, while preparing the president's intelligence briefing book, Charlie watches a video in which Islamic terrorists slit the throat of a British captive. The masked killers then promise to do the same to another prisoner, an American aid worker. The pilot was filmed before the American journalist James Foley was beheaded on camera by ISIS last August.

Unfortunately, the nightmares that television writers dream up increasingly anticipate real events -- ''Madam Secretary'' also had a botched hostage-rescue scenario that was filmed before the public knew about the real-life failed attempt to save Mr. Foley.

After Hillary Rodham Clinton lashed out at her critics at a congressional hearing on Benghazi when she was secretary of state, and after Samantha Power became an outspoken ambassador to the United Nations, it wasn't hard to predict that networks would favor more glamorous, fictional versions.

Pilots aren't always the best indicator of a show's trajectory, and ''State of Affairs'' could twist toward the campy histrionics of ''Scandal'' or follow the more grounded, good-government ethos of ''Madam Secretary.''

Either way, though, the affairs of state on ''State of Affairs'' will turn out to be messed up from within.

State of Affairs

NBC, Monday nights at 10, Eastern and Pacific times; 9, Central time.

Produced by Universal Television in association with Abishag Productions, Aardwolf and STX Entertainment. Created by Alexi Hawley; Dario Scardapane, Joe Carnahan, Katherine Heigl, Nancy Heigl, Robert Simonds, Julia Franz, Henry Crumpton, Rodney Faraon and Sophie Watts, executive producers.

WITH: Katherine Heigl (Charleston Tucker), Alfre Woodard (President Constance Payton), Cliff Chamberlain (Kurt Tannen), Adam Kaufman (Lucas Newsome), Tommy Savas (Dashiell Greer), Sheila Vand (Maureen Jones) and David Harbour (David Patrick).

State of Affairs: Prone to taking liberties: Katherine Heigl as a national security adviser, Monday night on NBC. (C1); Katherine Heigl, left, and Alfre Woodard in the NBC drama ''State of Affairs.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL PARMELEE/NBC) (C6)

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141117eabh000fm


U.S.
Your Monday Briefing
By ADEEL HASSAN
1009 words
17 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Good morning.

Here’s what you need to know:

• Nuclear deadline approaches.

Negotiators from six world powers and Iran are in Vienna today for what they hope will be the final round of talks on Iran’s nuclear program[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/17/world/middleeast/nuclear-deal-with-iran-runs-into-obstacles-.html].

The deadline is a week from today, and President Obama’s national security advisers put the chance of reaching an agreement at 40 percent to 50 percent.

• Back at the White House.

Mr. Obama meets with his senior advisers today. He returned from the G-20 summit meeting in Australia on Sunday.

He is expected to announce executive action as early as this week that could offer legal documents[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/16/us/obamas-immigration-plan-could-grant-papers-to-millions-at-least-for-now.html] to as many as five million immigrants in the country illegally.

• European crises.

European Union foreign ministers are discussing[http://www.nytimes.com/reuters/2014/11/17/world/europe/17reuters-ukraine-crisis-mogherini.html] the blacklisting of more Ukrainian separatists and their suspected Russian backers at their regular meeting in Brussels today. A cease-fire is as shaky as ever.

Separately, the European Commission is expected to take emergency measures today after a highly contagious strain of bird flu was discovered[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/18/world/europe/avian-flu-detected-in-the-netherlands-and-britain.html] at a poultry farm in the Netherlands.

• Ebola doctor dies.

A surgeon who contracted Ebola while working in Sierra Leone died today[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/18/us/martin-salia-omaha-ebola-dead.html] after arriving in critical condition in Nebraska for treatment[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/16/us/martin-salia-taken-to-nebraska-medical-center-for-ebola-treatment.html].

And the U.S. is adding Mali[http://www.nytimes.com/reuters/2014/11/16/world/africa/16reuters-health-ebola-usa.html] to the list of West African countries whose travelers will receive special screening upon arrival.

• Pope will travel to U.S.

Pope Francis said today that he will make his first papal visit to the United States[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/18/world/europe/pope-francis-will-visit-united-states-next-year-archbishop-says.html] next year, with at least one stop in Philadelphia for the Roman Catholic Church’s World Meeting of Families in September.

• Checking edible marijuana sweets.

Colorado health authorities today plan to ask for a new panel to decide which marijuana foods and drinks[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/17/us/colorado-health-department-to-recommend-premarket-approval-for-edible-marijuana.html] look too much like regular snacks.

They are worried that the treats are too attractive to children.

MARKETS

• Japan unexpectedly fell into recession in the third quarter, data showed today. Rising sales taxes[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/17/business/international/defying-expectations-japans-economy-shrinks-further.html] were cited as the reason for deterring consumer spending.

The main Tokyo stock index slumped 3 percent on the news, and European shares followed into negative territory before turning higher. Wall Street stocks are flat.

• In the biggest deal this year, two big drug makers[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/11/17/allergan-agrees-to-be-sold-to-actavis/] said today they would merge. Actavis, now based in Ireland for tax reasons, is buying Allergan of California for $66 billion.

• For half the price, Halliburton, the world’s second-largest oil-field services provider, said today that it would buy a smaller rival[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/11/17/halliburton-to-buy-baker-hughes-for-34-billion/], Baker Hughes, in a deal worth $34.6 billion.

• Foreign investors buying stocks in Shanghai reached the daily limit[http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/11/16/link-opens-between-hong-kong-and-shanghai-stock-markets/] for trading by early afternoon on the first day of the new stock exchange link between Hong Kong and China.

• Australia today signed a comprehensive free-trade deal[http://www.nytimes.com/reuters/2014/11/17/business/17reuters-australia-china-trade-announcement.html] with China, its top trading partner.

• Pfizer and Merck signed a major cancer drug deal [http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/11/17/pfizer-to-pay-up-to-2-9-billion-in-cancer-drug-deal-with-merck-of-germany/]today, the cost of which will reduce Pfizer’s projected earnings.

OVER THE WEEKEND

• The Islamic State released a video showing a British-accented fighter standing over the severed head of the American aid worker Peter Kassig[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/17/world/middleeast/isis-video-purports-to-prove-peter-kassig-execution.html].

• Four Texas workers died and a fifth was hospitalized after a hazardous gas leak at a DuPont chemical plant[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/16/us/four-workers-are-killed-in-gas-leak-at-texas-chemical-plant.html] east of Houston.

• Criticism of Bill Cosby escalated with renewed attention to sexual assault allegations from decades ago. His lawyer defended him[http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/11/16/lawyer-defends-cosby-over-assault-claims/].

• Police video revealed a few details[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/16/us/ferguson-shooting-michael-brown-darren-wilson.html] of the fatal run-in between an unarmed black teenager and a white police officer in Ferguson, Mo.

• The website of the federal health insurance marketplace[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/16/us/health-insurance-marketplace-opens.html] performed much better than last year, but there were some new frustrations.

• Twenty years after the 1994 original, “Dumb and Dumber To[http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/11/16/nostalgia-helps-dumb-and-dumber-to-top-the-box-office/]” led the North American movie box office.

• Catching up on TV: We have your episode recaps for “Homeland,[http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/11/16/homeland-recap-sauls-cry-to-carrie/]” “The Newsroom[http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/11/16/the-newsroom-recap-its-godfather-trivia-night/],” “The Affair[http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/11/16/the-affair-recap-do-you-prefer-cole-or-noah/]” and “The Good Wife[http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/11/16/the-good-wife-recap-in-a-campaign-commercial-alicia-shows-off-her-acting-chops/].”

NOTEWORTHY

• The most wonderful time of year.

Beginning today, the U.S. Postal Service is delivering[https://www.usps.com/holiday/] packages seven days a week, up to and including Christmas Day.

It expects to deliver 450 million to 470 million packages, more than 10 percent over last year.

• Football, on and off the field.

The Minnesota Vikings’ Adrian Peterson, who has not played since his indictment in September on felony child abuse charges, has a hearing today[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/17/sports/football/adrian-petersons-path-to-reinstatement-is-bogged-down-in-nfls-complex-process.html] about his possible reinstatement.

There was also a full slate of games[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/17/sports/football/rams-defense-shuts-down-broncos-running-game.html] on Sunday.

• Music mania.

One Direction, whose last three albums debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard 200, today releases its fourth album, “FOUR.”[https://itunes.apple.com/us/album/four/id914559415]

Also out today: the tribute album “The Art of McCartney[https://itunes.apple.com/us/album/art-mccartney-bonus-track/id911829038]” by various artists, and new collections from Bruce Springsteen and David Bowie.

And the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers commemorates its centennial with a ceremony[http://ascapfoundation.org/centennial.aspx] recognizing American music stars: Joan Baez, Garth Brooks, Billy Joel, Stephen Sondheim and Stevie Wonder.

BACK STORY

Ninety people were arrested over the weekend[http://www.newser.com/article/987ea98c7d1a43d1ab980dd21f7e203d/dutch-police-arrest-dozens-of-protesters-amid-unrest-over-saint-nicholas-sidekick-black-pete.html] in the Netherlands during protests of the re-enactment of the arrival of St. Nicholas.

In the Dutch tradition of Sinterklaas, partly inspired by a 19th-century children’s book, “Saint Nicholas and His Servant[http://www.dbnl.org/tekst/sche039stni01_01/sche039stni01_01_0012.php],” he arrives by boat from Spain with gifts for children and his dark-skinned helper, Black Pete.

In re-enactments, hundreds of white people dress up in Pete’s medieval costume — complete with blackened face, thick red lips and an Afro wig.

A court said the character “gives rise to a negative stereotyping of black people,” but last week the nation’s highest judicial panel overturned the finding.

Supporters of Black Pete say his dark skin comes from sliding down chimneys with gifts. A poll last year found[http://www.nltimes.nl/2013/10/23/un-investigator-pleads-for-abolishing-sinterklaas/] that more than 90 percent of Dutch citizens surveyed would not change him.

Victoria Shannon contributed reporting.

Your Morning Briefing is posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com[mailto:Briefing@NYTimes.com].

Want to get the briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up[http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/nytnow/].

It was announced that Pope Francis will visit the U.S. in 2015. | Andreas Solaro/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141117eabh001p5


A
FEAR OF EBOLA OPENS WARY VILLAGES TO OUTSIDERS
By ADAM NOSSITER
83 words
17 November 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
1
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Dandano Journal; villagers in Dandano and elsewhere in Guinea's inaccessible Forest Region are beginning to relent after refusing help from outsiders in combating Ebola outbreak; fear of unknown caused villagers to blockade roads and defy intervention by Red Cross, allowing disease to spread unchecked for months; health care workers now face far more difficult job in tracking down victims and those who had contact with them. Photo, Maps (M)

Combination

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141118eabh00033


A
A CUBAN BRAIN DRAIN, COURTESY OF U.S.
63 words
17 November 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
24
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Editorial criticizes the Cuban Medical Professional Parole Program, which has enabled 1,278 Cubans to defect while on oversees assignments in the last fiscal year; maintains it is hypocritical for Washington to praise Cuba's extensive efforts in fighting Ebola while inviting Cuban doctors working abroad to defect (Series: Cuba: A New Start). (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141118eabh0004i


A
WHEN GOVERNMENT SUCCEEDS
By PAUL KRUGMAN
55 words
17 November 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
25
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Paul Krugman Op-Ed column argues points out the United States response to the Ebola crisis was successful despite partisan furor and irrational calls for extreme measures; examines several other public policy initiatives under the Obama administration that triumphed despite being met with an unjustified public cynicism. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141118eabh0004t


Times Insider
A Reporter Reveals Ebola’s Effect on One Family
NORIMITSU ONISHI
785 words
17 November 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
Kaizer Dour’s family survived Liberia’s 14-year-long civil war, but they could not survive the Ebola virus. Last week Norimitsu Onishi told the stories of a family[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/14/world/africa/in-ebola-outbreak-in-liberia-a-familys-strength-can-be-its-fatal-flaw.html#slideshow/100000003233188/100000003233195] torn apart by Ebola. Here’s what it took to piece it together.

We stumbled upon this story on a very busy Sunday spent crisscrossing Monrovia. Esther, the 5-year-old girl who would die of Ebola a week later, was lying on a sidewalk. A crowd of more than 100 stood, not around her, but at a safe distance on the other side of the street. Daniel Berehulak, the photographer with whom I worked on the story, started shooting; I started talking to people.

The neighborhood chairman opened a notebook with a list of the girl’s relatives: those who had died of Ebola and when; those who were sick; and those who had fled. Half a dozen residents of the neighborhood, visibly angry and panicking, were shouting at the same time, correcting parts of his account, corroborating others. Much of the information provided by the chairman and residents would prove to be wrong. But it was clear that something terrible had occurred in Esther’s family.

I had already been in Liberia for two weeks in what would be a two-month trip there, and was looking for a way to write about Ebola’s effect on families. Most of the people who have died in this epidemic died at home, in the presence of their families, because of the acute shortage of Ebola treatment centers. Also, I had covered West Africa before and knew that in Liberia — as in many other parts of Africa with barely functioning governments — the family and, to a lesser extent, religious institutions were often the only things that people could rely on. So what happens when families and churches become the sources of contagion and death?

Liberians kept telling me that Ebola was worse than the country’s 14-year civil war. I had covered Liberia during the war and the related war next door in Sierra Leone — both conflicts unfathomable in their brutality — and initially thought that the comparison was hyperbole. But Ebola made Liberians fear their own families.

The confusion of that first day gave way to the denials and self-deception engaged in by most victims of Ebola. Beyond the precautions we took while working in neighborhoods and homes affected by the disease, the biggest challenge was grasping the real state of mind of the people at the heart of the family drama. Their perception of events was often misleading and also fluid. But by casting a wide net — and talking to family members who lived outside the neighborhood, neighbors, family friends, church members, pastors, colleagues — it became possible to piece together what happened. After a while we had a picture of the entire family’s story, one that even family members themselves did not have.

That helped us to understand the full significance of the many events we witnessed, including the discovery by Lester Morris that his daughter, Esther, had died. He was tormented with guilt because he had been too afraid to go see her; now that she had died, he was still helpless — he couldn’t get her body for a funeral or even a photograph. In another chapter of the story, having heard how Mark Jerry had intimately taken care of his dying wife, Edwina, I suspected he would get sick and hurried to find him before he did. But even though he was becoming symptomatic, Mark was in profound denial and told people that he had typhoid. He agreed to meet, then switched off his cellphone and went into hiding for a couple of days. We couldn’t find him at his home, his grandmother’s place or his best friend’s. But having spent time with them, they immediately called us when Mark and his daughter, Princess, showed up in front of an Ebola treatment center.

The passage of time, repeated meetings, interviews and phone calls made most people more candid. Some became more open in ways that surprised me. One man had spent years in a refugee camp in the Ivory Coast, learning taekwondo, furniture-making and French. He spoke English and French equally well, but was invariably far more open and candid in French. Perhaps he felt that by speaking French fewer people around us would understand. But I always felt there was something more. By dropping his Liberian English and adopting his Ivorian-accented French, he, I thought, suddenly became an outsider looking into what had befallen his family.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141117eabh003v3


Television Review
Arts; Television
Bodies Pile Up, but Business Goes On
By NEIL GENZLINGER
373 words
18 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
With more than enough horror stories coming out of Africa lately you may have little appetite for revisiting a gruesome chapter of Liberian history from a quarter-century ago. But “Firestone and the Warlord,”[http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/firestone-and-the-warlord/] a 90-minute “Frontline” special Tuesday on PBS, is an example of the reason we bother to scrutinize history. Its troubling questions are not easily answered, but merely examining them might be useful for anyone venturing into unstable areas today.

The program, made with ProPublica, looks at the actions taken by Firestone, which has a large rubber plantation in Liberia, when that country descended into civil war. People who worked there then describe a prewar life that is disturbing in itself, with white foreigners overseeing black local workers in a setting reminiscent of a Southern plantation.

“We actually had a nine-hole golf course,” recalls Steve Raimo, a former senior accountant for Firestone. “The greens were oiled sand.”

But the program’s real concern is what happened when Charles G. Taylor led a bloody revolution beginning in 1989. The company abandoned the plantation for a time but eventually struck a deal with Mr. Taylor, who is now imprisoned for war crimes[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/31/world/africa/charles-taylor-sentenced-to-50-years-for-war-crimes.html?pagewanted=all&module=Search&mabReward=relbias%3Ar%2C%7B%221%22%3A%22RI%3A5%22%7D].

“Why did we go back?” says Brad Pettit, a former Firestone controller. “Because we felt sorry for the people that were there? Probably not. We wanted to get the investment earning money again.”

Mr. Taylor’s revolution left thousands dead and was infamous for its use of child soldiers. Did the company make a deal with the Devil? And did its money finance Mr. Taylor’s atrocities?

Perhaps, but had the company left Liberia for good in 1989 a more recent headline[http://www.npr.org/blogs/goatsandsoda/2014/10/06/354054915/firestone-did-what-governments-have-not-stopped-ebola-in-its-tracks], from an NPR report last month, would never have been written. “Firestone Did What Governments Have Not: Stopped Ebola in Its Tracks,” it says.

Frontline

Firestone and the Warlord

On PBS stations on Tuesday night (check local listings).

Produced by “Frontline” with Rain Media in partnership with ProPublica. Written, directed and produced by Marcela Gaviria; Will Cohen and Maeve O’Boyle, co-producers; Jonathan Jones and T. Christian Miller, reporters. For “Frontline”: David Fanning, executive producer; Raney Aronson-Rath, deputy executive producer.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141118eabi0002v


U.S.
Doctor Being Treated for Ebola in Omaha Dies
By ABBY GOODNOUGH and TOMMY TRENCHARD
1142 words
18 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
WASHINGTON — This time, the challenge of Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] was much steeper for the doctors and nurses at Nebraska Medical Center[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/10/us/ashoka-mukpo-ebola-nebraska-hospital.html], one of a handful of hospitals specially designated to handle cases of the deadly virus in the United States.

Unlike the two Ebola patients they had successfully treated earlier this year at the hospital’s biocontainment unit in Omaha, the man who arrived from Sierra Leone[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/sierraleone/index.html?inline=nyt-geo] on Saturday, Dr. Martin Salia, was in extremely critical condition. Dr. Salia, a legal permanent resident of the United States who had been working as a surgeon in Sierra Leone, died early Monday morning, barely into his second day of treatment, but almost two weeks into his illness.

“Even the most modern techniques that we have at our disposal are not enough to help these patients once they reach a critical threshold,” said Dr. Jeffrey P. Gold, chancellor of the University of the Nebraska Medical Center, the hospital’s academic partner.

Dr. Philip Smith, the medical director of the biocontainment unit, said that Dr. Salia, 44, had initially been tested for Ebola in Freetown, the capital of Sierra Leone, on Nov. 7, but that the test came back negative. He was retested there on Nov. 10, at which point the results were positive. Dr. Smith said such false negatives were not uncommon early in the illness.

Dr. Daniel W. Johnson, a critical care specialist at Nebraska Medical Center, said Dr. Salia’s kidneys had stopped functioning and he was laboring to breathe when he arrived at the hospital late Saturday afternoon after a 15-hour flight. Doctors quickly tried two treatments they had used on their other Ebola patients: an experimental antiviral drug and a plasma transfusion from the blood of an Ebola survivor[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/06/nyregion/in-exclusive-club-of-us-ebola-survivors-kinship-is-sealed-in-blood.html], which researchers believe may provide antibodies[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/test/antibody-titer/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] against the virus.

But Dr. Salia was already so ill that within hours of his arrival at the hospital, he needed continuous dialysis[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/test/dialysis/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] to replace his kidney function. By the pre-dawn hours of Sunday, he was in respiratory failure[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/respiratory-acidosis/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] and needed a ventilator, Dr. Johnson said on Monday. Around the same time, he added, Dr. Salia’s blood pressure[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/test/blood-pressure/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] plummeted.

“He progressed to the point of cardiac arrest and we weren’t able to get him through this,” Dr. Johnson said at a news conference in Omaha. “We really, really gave it everything we could.”

Dr. Smith said he did not know how Dr. Salia had contracted the virus. “He worked in an area where there was a lot of Ebola disease, much of it probably unrecognized,” Dr. Smith said, “and there were many opportunities for him to have contracted it.”

In the frenetic neighborhood of Kissy, on the eastern end of Freetown, an eerie quiet hung over the United Methodist Hospital on Monday as news spread that Dr. Salia had died. He was the chief medical officer and the only surgeon at United Methodist Kissy Hospital, according to United Methodist News Service.

Leonard Gbloh, the administrator of the hospital, said he did not think Dr. Salia could have contracted Ebola there.

“We have not been taking Ebola patients here” he said. “And we had stringent control measures in place to prevent it entering.”

The hospital even stopped all surgical work several months ago as a precaution, Mr. Gbloh said. Now, the hospital is being decontaminated and several staff members who came into contact with Dr. Salia after he fell ill are in quarantine there.

But Mr. Gbloh said that Dr. Salia — whose wife and two children live in New Carrollton, Md. — had also been working at other hospitals and clinics in the area.

He said that Dr. Salia would be remembered as kind and dedicated, adding, “He was a great professional, always willing to work overtime.”

Yahya Tunis, a spokesman at the Sierra Leone Ministry of Health and Sanitation, said he had known Dr. Salia well. He recalled how, during a doctors’ strike earlier in the Ebola outbreak, Dr. Salia had turned up at Connaught Hospital in Freetown and persuaded his colleagues to return to work.

“He had left the comforts of America to come and work here in his home country,” Mr. Tunis said. “We are very saddened by his passing.”

Despite signs that Ebola is in decline in eastern parts of Sierra Leone, as well as in neighboring Liberia, the virus is still rampant in Freetown and its environs. According the government’s count, the country saw more than 500 new cases last week, with the highest number in Freetown.

Five other doctors in Sierra Leone have contracted Ebola; all have died. Although the State Department arranged for Dr. Salia’s travel to Omaha from Sierra Leone on a specially equipped plane, patients or their sponsoring organizations are typically responsible for the costs of such evacuations.

Dr. Salia is the second patient to die of Ebola in the United States. The first, Thomas Eric Duncan[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/09/us/ebola-us-thomas-eric-duncan.html], died in early October at a Dallas hospital after traveling there from Liberia. Two nurses who cared for Mr. Duncan, Nina Pham[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/25/us/nina-pham-free-of-ebola-virus.html] and Amber Joy Vinson[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/29/us/ebola-outbreak-dallas-nurse-amber-joy-vinson.html], also contracted the virus but recovered.

Two other Americans who contracted Ebola in West Africa, Dr. Rick Sacra, a missionary doctor, and Ashoka Mukpo, a freelance cameraman, recovered after being treated at the Nebraska unit in September and October. But both arrived there earlier in their illness and did not need dialysis or a ventilator. Each patient at the Nebraska unit has received a different experimental drug, and doctors say it is hard to know whether they helped Dr. Sacra and Mr. Mukpo.

Dr. Salia’s body will be cremated, Dr. Smith said, adding that he and his staff are still waiting for the results of Dr. Salia’s blood tests, which will show how much virus he had in his body.

Dr. Smith said the nurses, doctors and respiratory therapists who had cared for Dr. Salia would monitor their temperatures and be on alert for any symptoms of the virus in the coming weeks, logging the results into an electronic database that will be checked daily. But they will continue to work, he said.

“The staff gave it everything and then some,” said Rosanna Morris, the hospital’s chief nursing officer. “Now they need a little time to grieve and really find peace within themselves, awaiting our next patient.”

Abby Goodnough reported from Washington, and Tommy Trenchard from Freeport, Sierra Leone.

* Fear of Ebola Opens Wary Villages to Outsiders in Guinea[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/17/world/africa/fear-of-ebola-opens-wary-villages-to-outsiders-in-guinea.html]

Dr. Martin Salia at United Methodist Kissy Hospital outside Freetown, Sierra Leone. | Mike Dubose/United Methodist, via European Pressphoto Agency | Dr. Daniel W. Johnson, the director of critical care at the University of Nebraska Medical Center, discussed how Dr. Martin Salia died after being brought to the hospital with advanced Ebola symptoms. | Reuters

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141117eabi0025u


news
Doctor treated for Ebola in Omaha dies
By THE NEW YORK TIMES
278 words
18 November 2014
International New York Times
INHT
6
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Dr. Martin Salia, a surgeon who contracted Ebola while working in Sierra Leone, died Monday while being treated in a biocontainment center in Omaha.

‘‘It is with an extremely heavy heart that we share this news,’’ said Dr. Philip Smith, the medical director of the biocontainment unit at the Nebraska Medical Center. ‘‘Dr. Salia was extremely critical when he arrived here, and unfortunately, despite our best efforts, we weren’t able to save him.’’

Dr. Salia, who was a citizen of Sierra Leone but lived in Maryland, had been working as a general surgeon at Kissy United Methodist Hospital in Sierra Leone’s capital, Freetown. It was not clear where he had come in contact with Ebola patients. Five other doctors in Sierra Leone have contracted Ebola; all have died.

A hospital spokeswoman, Taylor Wilson, said Dr. Salia had shown symptoms on Nov. 6 but initially tested negative. He tested positive a week ago.

In a statement, the hospital said he had been suffering from advanced symptoms of Ebola, including kidney and respiratory failure, when he arrived on Saturday. Treatments, the statement said, included kidney dialysis and ventilation as well as a blood plasma transfusion from a patient who has recovered from Ebola and an experimental drug, ZMapp.

‘‘As we have learned, early treatment with these patients is essential,’’ Dr. Smith. said. ‘‘In Dr. Salia’s case, his disease was already extremely advanced by the time he came here for treatment.’’

Dr. Salia is the second patient to die of Ebola in the United States, both of whom contracted the disease while in West Africa.

International Herald Tribune

Document INHT000020141118eabi00009


N.Y. / Region
Diverse Mix of Students Learn Civilized Dissent
By ALAN SCHWARZ
1093 words
18 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Correction Appended

The issues could stock a Sunday talk show: body cameras for the police, Ebola panic and more. Yet the points and rebuttals came not in shouts from politicians and pundits, but from pre-teenagers formally debating topics that occasionally hit close to home in their disparate neighborhoods.

This past weekend, about 100 middle school students from 10 schools in the New York City area — members of the New York Debate League[https://www.esuus.org/esu/programs/middle_school_debate/NYDL/] — convened at the Hackley School campus in Tarrytown, N.Y., for a monthly tournament. The league, which includes elite private institutions like Hackley and the Dalton School as well as charter schools[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/c/charter_schools/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] like the Success Academy Charter Schools, with a large proportion of poor students, is in its fourth year of teaching children of all backgrounds the fading art of civilized dissent.

“To me, the debate league is kind of an extra kind of education — it’s preparing you to go out into the world,” said Brianna Scott, a seventh grader at Success Academy Harlem West[http://www.successacademies.org/schools/harlem-west/]. “Plus,” she added with a smile, “it’s just fun.”

Once the purview of colleges and high schools, debate leagues are now sprouting among middle schools across the United States; national tournaments attract hundreds of schools. The New York league stands out, though, for pitting children traditionally ordained for the Ivy League against students trying to be the first in their family to go to college. Amid debates over National Security Agency surveillance and universal prekindergarten, they put away their iPods and mix during the breaks, seeming almost oblivious to their differences.

As in so many youth competitions, the grown-ups can get a little unhinged: Parents complain about officials while coaches joke about recruiting prodigies away from rival schools. But most apparent are the youngsters’ growing appreciation for research, argument and on-their-feet consideration of other viewpoints, skills they will need as adults whether for political advocacy or boardroom presentation. Only in debate would children be encouraged to engage in “argumentative heckling” — the debate term for constructive interruption.

Heady topics can get emotional. At the tournament in April, Sekou Cisse, a Harlem West eighth grader whose family is from Mali, argued against the proposition that war on poverty in the United States had failed. If it had, he told a rapt audience, “it would mean that no matter how hard I try, how well I do in school, or how much I practice debate, I can’t overcome the world I was born into.” He won the Golden Gavel as the day’s best debater, and that very night saw a neighbor shot in his East Harlem housing project.

The league chooses newsy subjects at which some parents might bristle, taken up by children as young as 9. As the league president, Steve Fitzpatrick, put it, “It helps adults take their opinions seriously.”

“Kids have access to this information; we can’t pretend that these kids don’t know about what’s going on in the world, whether it’s Ebola or beheadings,” added Mr. Fitzpatrick, a Hackley history teacher who coaches its debate team. “I’m not looking to have them grow up quicker than they already do. But they can handle a lot more than we think they can.”

Because children do not know which side they must represent until 20 minutes before debate begins, they must prepare to argue equally for both — sometimes, the side that they personally abhor.

One topic on Saturday concerned whether the digital enhancement of women in advertisements should be banned. An eighth-grade girl from the Dalton School found herself arguing that the rising rate of eating disorders among women had no relationship to the pictures presented in magazines.

“It was really hard, but you have to understand other people’s views so that you can prove against their point,” said the girl, whose parents requested that she be unnamed in this article. “I need to look at how the companies think, so that I can argue against them. Not everything’s black and white.”

Perhaps the most compelling debate on Saturday matched Harlem West, featuring Brianna and a classmate, a boy named Latif Diaoune, and three sixth-grade girls from Hackley. They debated the merits of having police officers wear body cameras.

“An extensive yearlong study showed that body cameras were associated in a drastic reduction in citizen complaints,” Latif contended, standing up straight in his school’s blue vest and tie. “It also saves money.”

Charlize Hudson of Hackley countered with the privacy issues: “We’re going to be filmed 24/7 by these body cameras, and we don’t know whether it will be published online.”

“Would you rather be dead?” Brianna interrupted.

“The police are in favor of it,” Charlize responded, citing a study she had found doing online research.

Harlem West won the debate. Afterward, while talking with her opponents, Charlize acknowledged that she had felt mixed emotions during much of her argument; while she attends Hackley and has pale skin, her father, who was sitting nearby, is African-American and grew up harassed by the police in South Carolina. Brianna congratulated her on setting that fact aside and debating well.

The top teams on Saturday all came from prestigious schools of the Upper East Side of Manhattan, such as Hunter (which finished first), Dalton and the all-girls Nightingale-Bamford School. Latif received a ribbon for ranking 21st individually, and Brianna finished 12th.

“It’s cool to show off my skills,” said Latif, whose parents are from Burkina Faso in West Africa. “Debating to me comes down to sounding professional. Plus, I want to be the first Muslim president.”

For the first time all day, there was a point that no one could debate.

Correction: November 17, 2014, Monday

An earlier version of this article misstated the name of a charter school network. It is the Success Academy Charter Schools, not Harlem Success Academies.

Latif Diaoune, left, from Success Academy Harlem West, debating against students from the Hackley School in Tarrytown, N.Y. | Victor J. Blue for The New York Times | Silma Bathily, left, and Aissata Gbane, both students at Harlem Success Academy West, before the debate on Saturday. | Victor J. Blue for The New York Times | Students wait for the final debate tournament standings. | Victor J. Blue for The New York Times | Ryan Raymundo, a student at the Dalton School, received an award at the tournament. | Victor J. Blue for The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141118eabi00105


First Draft
Today in Politics
THE NEW YORK TIMES
1408 words
18 November 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
With Snowden Long Gone, Senate Examines Domestic Spying Again

Good Tuesday morning from Washington, where immigration remains the No. 1 topic of discussion while President Obama also keeps an eye on Iran talks and the situation in Ferguson, Mo. Senator Mary L. Landrieu bets her career on the Keystone XL pipeline, and the city continues to feel the repercussions of David H. Petraeus’s extramarital affair. In the Senate, an overhaul of domestic spying operations is on the line.

While the issue has been overshadowed by the immigration debate, an overhaul of domestic spying operations is set for a test this evening in a Senate vote spurred by disclosures about National Security Agency operations by Edward J. Snowden.

Senators will decide whether to open debate on the U.S.A. Freedom Act, a bipartisan proposal backed by both progressives and conservatives in an attempt to end the intelligence agency’s once-secret program, which systematically collects data in bulk about Americans’ phone calls.

The bill’s supporters, led by Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who chairs the Senate Judiciary Committee, say they are close to assembling the 60 votes needed to bring it to the floor. Supporters have highlighted support for the bill from Apple, Facebook, Google, Twitter and other tech companies.

The bill would allow the phone data to remain in the custody with the phone companies. It would also give phone and Internet companies more freedom to disclose orders they have received from the government.

The measure faces serious opposition. Some believe it could harm national security, and others argue it does not go far enough in protecting individuals and consumers. The White House warned yesterday that if the bill is blocked, major surveillance programs due to expire next summer may be in jeopardy.

– Carl Hulse

Obama’s Checklist: Keystone, Ferguson, Iran, Immigration. And That’s Just This Week.

President Obama had been back less than a day from a weeklong trip to Asia but he wasted no time yesterday in sounding out Democratic senators on immigration.

The discussions were broad, congressional officials said, and Mr. Obama did not provide a timetable for executive actions that could protect as many as five million undocumented immigrants from deportation.

But the conversations were a clear signal that the president was preparing to move soon, and came as top Senate Democrats sent a letter urging the president to do so. Immigration activists speculated that an announcement could come before week’s end.

But that’s not the only item on his agenda. Today, Mr. Obama faces a Senate vote on a measure that would force him to approve, or veto, the Keystone XL pipeline.

In St. Louis, officials are bracing for possible unrest when the grand jury in the Michael Brown case makes its decision public. That could draw Mr. Obama, and the Justice Department, back into that volatile situation.

And overseas, the president’s team is probably in the final week of negotiations with Iran over the fate of its nuclear program.

For a so-called lame duck, it promises to be a busy week.

– Michael D. Shear

Landrieu Goes All-In on the Keystone Pipeline, But It May Be Too Late to Save Her

Last week, Senator Mary L. Landrieu got her colleagues to agree to hold a vote that would expedite approval of the Keystone XL pipeline. Then yesterday she found protesters laying down an inflatable pipeline on the lawn of her home a few blocks from the Capitol. But the question remains: Will the vote help her hold her seat in a runoff next month in petroleum-producing Louisiana?

Ms. Landrieu, a Democrat, received significant publicity in demanding a pipeline vote as soon as Congress returned. It’s scheduled for today[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/18/us/politics/landrieu-tries-to-gather-enough-votes-on-keystone-pipeline.html?ref=politics], and win or lose, she can argue that she was able to force the Senate to be decisive — even if the vote was allowed mainly to try to rescue her.

But even if Ms. Landrieu were to weld the pipeline together herself, it might not be enough.

She is being significantly outspent by Republicans and is at a disadvantage in a head-to-head race against Representative Bill Cassidy, her Republican opponent. Fellow Democrats increasingly see her position as precarious.

– Carl Hulse

A Test of Pelosi’s Political Strength as House Democrats Lick Their Wounds

Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, who is expected to be re-elected today as the House Democratic leader, moved yesterday[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/18/us/changes-announced-in-house-democrats-political-team.html?ref=politics] to put her stamp on the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee by installing Representative Ben Ray Luján as its chairman.

Mr. Luján, from a prominent New Mexico political family, puts a younger lawmaker — he’s 42 — with appeal to Hispanic groups at the head of the committee. (He replaces Representative Steve Israel, who is 56 and from reliably blue New York.)

As House minority leader, Ms. Pelosi gets to pick the congressional campaign chairman. But she is having to fight to get another of her allies installed as the top Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Ms. Pelosi wants a close friend, Representative Anna G. Eshoo of California, rather than Representative Frank Pallone Jr. of New Jersey, who has the advantage of seniority.

It’s a test of whether Ms. Pelosi still has clout with her colleagues after the electoral pounding her party took two weeks ago.

– Carl Hulse

What We’re Watching Today

President Obama will receive a briefing on the Ebola response at the White House and participate in an ambassadorial credentialing ceremony.

Vice President Joseph R. Biden meets with Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka of the Czech Republic before leaving for a trip to Morocco.

Sylvia Mathews Burwell, the secretary of health and human services, holds a news conference on the Affordable Care Act in Houston.

Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, testifies before the House Energy and Commerce Committee[http://energycommerce.house.gov/hearing/update-us-public-health-response-ebola-outbreak] about Ebola at 1 p.m.

Freshman House members gather for their class photo at 8:15 a.m.

Witness Lineup? Or Washington Guest List?

The list is an all-star lineup of the Obama administration’s national security team.

There are cabinet members, current and former; intelligence chiefs; a constellation of generals; and former F.B.I. and C.I.A. directors. They are all potential witnesses in a lawsuit filed by the Florida socialite Jill Kelley [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/06/us/from-petraeus-scandal-an-apostle-for-privacy.html?module=Search&mabReward=relbias%3Aw]. Her lawyers have told the Justice Department they want to depose each person on the list or subpoena documents from them.

Ms. Kelley and her husband are suing the federal government for disclosing her identity in connection with the scandal that led David H. Petraeus to resign[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/10/us/citing-affair-petraeus-resigns-as-cia-director.html?pagewanted=all&module=Search&mabReward=relbias%3Aw] as the C.I.A.’s director in November 2012.

Alan Raul, a lawyer for Ms. Kelley, and a spokesman for the Justice Department refused to comment. The names have not been made public, but a person affiliated with the litigation provided them, and the biggest are:

Gen. John R. Allen.

James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence.

Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr.

Jeh C. Johnson, secretary of homeland security.

Robert S. Mueller III, former director of the F.B.I.

Adm. Mike Mullen, former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

Former Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta.

General Petraeus, former C.I.A. director

If the suit goes to trial, and they are all called to testify, the witness list would rival the star power at the Scooter Libby trial in 2007[http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/06/washington/06cnd-libby.html?pagewanted=all&module=Search&mabReward=relbias%3Aw].

– Michael S. Schmidt

What We’re Reading Elsewhere

The National Journal lists the reasons why an executive order to defer deportations of some illegal immigrants may hurt both parties[http://www.nationaljournal.com.proxy.bc.edu/politics/obama-s-immigration-order-has-2016-perils-for-both-parties-20141116].

At National Review Online, Andrew C. McCarthy lays out the case for President Obama’s impeachment.[http://www.nationalreview.com/article/392726/point-impeachment-andrew-c-mccarthy]

Uber’s chief executive gave a big thumbs-up to the Affordable Care Act[http://nymag.com/daily/intelligencer/2014/11/uber-just-stuck-a-knife-in-the-gops-heart.html] over the weekend, and Republicans aren’t happy, according to New York magazine.

What will the “Duck Dynasty” family say? House Republicans have passed a $120 million increase in an annual levy on duck hunters[http://www.politico.com/story/2014/11/duck-hunting-tax-increase-republicans-112965.html?hp=l4_4], Politico reports.

The ad wars continue in the Louisiana runoff[http://www.nola.com/politics/index.ssf/2014/11/mary_landrieu_calls_latest_att.html#incart_river], with Senator Landrieu saying the latest commercial from her Republican opponentis sexist, according to The Times-Picayune.

Pope Francishas been invited to address Congress[http://ncronline.org/news/vatican/francis-urges-de-politicization-family-confirms-us-visit], The National Catholic Reporter says. He would be the first pope to do so.

Like this? Get First Draft delivered to your inbox[http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics/]

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141118eabi001bc


A
EBOLA PATIENT DIES IN NEBRASKA; WAS IN ADVANCED STAGE
By ABBY GOODNOUGH and TOMMY TRENCHARD
51 words
18 November 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
12
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Dr Martin Salia, Ebola patient who arrived from Sierra Leone in extremely critical condition, dies at Nebraska Medical Center in Omaha; advanced stage of his illness presented challenge too great to overcome. Photos (M)

Combination

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141119eabi00022


World; Asia Pacific
Indian Ebola Survivor Placed Under Quarantine at Delhi Airport
By ELLEN BARRY
514 words
19 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
NEW DELHI — A 26-year-old Indian man who recovered from Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] is being held at a quarantine facility at Delhi airport as a cautionary measure after his semen tested positive for the virus, health officials announced on Tuesday.

When he arrived at the airport on Nov. 10, the man volunteered that he had been successfully treated for Ebola in a Liberian hospital and had been released on Sept. 30.

Though tests of three blood samples came up negative, Indian officials opted to hold him because the virus can linger in other bodily fluids, like semen or urine, for as long as three months, according to a government statement carried by the Press Trust of India. Two samples of the man’s semen tested positive for the virus on Monday.

The statement urged calm, reiterating that “the person concerned is a treated and cured case of Ebola virus disease.” Nevertheless, it said, the patient will remain in quarantine until all of his bodily fluids test negative for the virus.

“All necessary precautions are being taken at the isolation facility,” the statement said. “This would rule out even the remote possibility of spread of this disease by the sexual route.”

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States have said that the virus has been detected in semen “for up to three months,” and recommends that men abstain from sex for that period.

For months, Indian officials have been preparing for cases here, mainly by installing screening systems at international airports and preparing quarantine sites in major cities in case people with the virus enter the country.

An estimated 45,000 Indians work as health care professionals in West Africa, where the Ebola outbreak is concentrated. Passengers arriving from countries affected by Ebola are directed to an airport health center, where they are given medical examinations that include a review of travel history and a test of body temperature. By mid-October, around 22,000 people had been screened and 485 people had been quarantined in Delhi, health ministry officials told The Hindustan Times[http://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ebolaoutbreak/india-on-alert-ramps-up-screening-for-ebola-at-airports/article1-1274928.aspx], a daily newspaper.

Experts have expressed alarm at the prospect of the virus spreading in India[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/india/index.html?inline=nyt-geo], which has a population of 1.2 billion, crowded cities that lack sanitation infrastructure and many health facilities that are underequipped and unhygienic.

Dr. Peter Piot, the microbiologist who helped discover Ebola in 1976[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/07/health/there-before-ebola-had-a-name.html], has said that if infected people were to enter the population in India, it would be “especially challenging” to isolate them and trace their contacts.

“It is particularly important to be vigilant and monitor people closely, and make sure the public are aware of the risks,” Dr. Piot said, according to The Hindu[http://www.thehindu.com/news/international/world/ebola-outbreak-will-be-especially-challenging-for-india/article6545633.ece], a daily newspaper here.

Health officials in India were careful to draw the distinction between a confirmed case of Ebola and the man under quarantine, whom the Liberian government certified as cured. “No cases of relapse of Ebola have been documented,” the health ministry said in its statement.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141118eabj00464


U.S.
Your Wednesday Briefing
By ADEEL HASSAN and VICTORIA SHANNON
915 words
19 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Good morning.

Here’s what you need to know:

• Maybe next time.

Awaiting the next Congress now are an overhaul of the National Security Agency program[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/19/us/nsa-phone-records.html] that collects phone call records and approval of the Keystone XL pipeline[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/19/us/politics/keystone-xl-pipeline.html].

Senators blocked both bills on Tuesday. Action on the nomination of Loretta E. Lynch[http://www.nytimes.com/aponline/2014/11/18/us/politics/ap-us-senate-attorney-general.html] to be attorney general was also left for January’s session.

• Israelis pray at attack site.

Jewish worshipers returned today[http://www.nytimes.com/aponline/2014/11/19/world/middleeast/ap-ml-israel-palestinians.html] to a Jerusalem synagogue, where five people were killed Tuesday by two Palestinian cousins.

Amid soaring tensions, Palestinians are bracing today for more home demolitions, which the Israeli authorities often carry out as punishment for such attacks.

• At the White House.

As President Obama considers providing work permits to millions of people in the U.S. illegally, an independent report says[http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2014/11/18/5-facts-about-illegal-immigration-in-the-u-s/] their number has remained unchanged, at 11.2 million, since 2009.

Today, Mr. Obama hosts school superintendents and other educators for a conference on using technology for learning[http://tech.ed.gov/superintendentsummit/].

• The fight against ISIS.

The F.B.I. is tracking close to 150 Americans[http://www.nytimes.com/reuters/2014/11/18/world/middleeast/18reuters-usa-fbi-syria.html] it believes traveled to Syria in recent months, potentially to join armed groups.

And the Obama administration is reassessing how the U.S. responds when its citizens are taken hostage[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/19/world/middleeast/isis-hostages-us-reviews-policies.html] overseas.

• Hong Kong heats up.

Demonstrators tried to break into the legislature by smashing windows early today.

Protest leaders condemned the violence, but frustration is mounting as the rallies calling for free elections have passed the 50-day mark.

• Ebola confirmed in doctor.

Cuba’s state media says that a doctor sent to fight Ebola[http://bigstory.ap.org.proxy.bc.edu/article/8efa135a706943ec917e225df7f3a871/cuba-says-doctor-catches-ebola-sierra-leone] in Sierra Leone has the disease. He is being transferred to a specialized unit in Geneva.

• Brrrrr.

Another two feet of snow is on its way to upstate New York[http://www.nytimes.com/aponline/2014/11/18/us/ap-us-wintry-weather.html] today, on top of more than four feet that fell Tuesday. Temperatures in all 50 states were below freezing[http://wattsupwiththat.com/2014/11/18/all-50-states-have-below-freezing-temperatures/] overnight.

One person was killed in a car accident and three others had fatal heart attacks in the Buffalo-area storm, which also left drivers in 150 vehicles stranded.

• Post office computer hack.

A House subcommittee looks for answers today at a hearing on the September data breach at the U.S. Postal Service[http://thehill.com/policy/cybersecurity/224000-house-hearing-to-examine-postal-service-breach] that compromised information on 800,000 employees.

• Overnight execution.

Missouri killed a man[http://www.nytimes.com/aponline/2014/11/18/us/ap-us-missouri-execution-taylor.html] for murdering a gas station attendant in front of the worker’s young stepdaughter in 1994.

It was the ninth execution in the state this year. Only Texas has had more[http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/execution-list-2014], with 10.

MARKETS

• Wall Street stock futures are flat to slightly lower after gains Tuesday. European stocks are edging higher, and Asian indexes mostly fell.

• Owners of Ford, Honda, Chrysler, Mazda and BMW cars, mostly from 2008 or earlier, are waiting to hear if their vehicles are part of the national recall sought by federal regulators over defective airbags[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/19/business/regulators-call-for-takata-airbag-recall-to-be-extended-nationwide.html].

• A ruling in favor of Shell in a $1.4 billion tax case by a court in India[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2014-11-19/india-court-rules-in-shell-s-favor-in-1-4-billion-tax-dispute.html] may help the country’s efforts to attract foreign investments.

• Target, Lowe’s and Staples post earnings today.

NOTEWORTHY

• Drone operators, beware.

The F.A.A. now has the authority to apply laws against “reckless or careless” flying[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/19/us/washington-faa-rules-found-to-apply-to-unmanned-aircraft.html] to unmanned aircraft.

• A new kind of space race.

A British consortium is trying to raise $780 million on Kickstarter[http://www.bbc.com/news/science-environment-30102343] to land a robotic probe on the moon within 10 years.

• The stars come out.

Chris Hughes, the Facebook multimillionaire, celebrates the 100th birthday of The New Republic [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/19/books/the-new-republic-at-100-and-at-a-crossroads.html]tonight with a star-studded black-tie gala in Washington.

Ebony magazine celebrates this year’s Power 100[http://www.ebony.com/power100-2014/] honorees tonight in Los Angeles. And People magazine named the actor Chris Hemsworth the “sexiest man alive[http://www.nytimes.com/reuters/2014/11/19/arts/19reuters-people-chrishemsworth.html].”

• For your book club.

The National Book Awards are presented tonight in New York and streamed live online[http://www.nationalbook.org/nba2014_ceremony.html#.VGxNBYcl5hk].

Ursula Le Guin receives the Lifetime Achievement Award, presented by Neil Gaiman.

• Troubles for Bill Cosby.

Netflix is postponing[http://www.nytimes.com/reuters/2014/11/19/arts/19reuters-people-billcosby.html] his stand-up comedy special “Bill Cosby 77” amid allegations that he sexually assaulted women.

Another accusation[http://www.etonline.com/news/154076_janice_dickinson_details_alleged_bill_cosby_sexual_assault/] was made Tuesday night.

BACK STORY

He was a poet, a playwright and a political prisoner.

And then Vaclav Havel helped incite the Velvet Revolution, the mostly peaceful protests that ousted the Communist Party from power in Prague 25 years ago this month.

Today, a bronze bust of Mr. Havel[http://www.speaker.gov/press-release/vaclav-havel-bust-will-be-dedicated-november-19] is dedicated in the Capitol in Washington to honor “all those whose sacrifices helped bring down the Iron Curtain.”

The end of the single-party state came after a series of protests over nine days — first by students in Bratislava, then by more than 500,000 people in Prague, and finally by a general strike across the country.

Six weeks later, Mr. Havel was sworn in as president of Czechoslovakia. After that state split into two, he became president of the Czech Republic.

But his moral authority eroded over time, and he was more popular outside the country than within when he died in 2011[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/19/world/europe/vaclav-havel-dissident-playwright-who-led-czechoslovakia-dead-at-75.html].

The current Czech president, Milos Zeman, has his own problems. He was pelted by eggs[http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/nov/17/czechs-pelt-president-milos-zeman-eggs-velvet-revolution-anniversary] this week at a Velvet Revolution memorial. Critics believe he is aligning the nation too closely with Russia.

Your Morning Briefing is posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com[mailto:Briefing@NYTimes.com].

Want to get the briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up[http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/nytnow/].

Police officers clashed with pro-democracy protesters outside the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong. | Lam Yik Fei/Getty Images

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141119eabj001xk


City Room
N.Y. / Region
New York Today: Wicked Cold
By ANDY NEWMAN
919 words
19 November 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
Good morning on this frozen Wednesday.

If you liked yesterday’s wake-up weather, you’ll love today’s.

It was 23 degrees[http://w1.weather.gov/data/obhistory/KNYC.html] in Central Park at 8 a.m. – as cold as it’s been before Thanksgiving in at least five years.

The wind chill stood at 13 degrees, with gusts bringing it to 8 degrees.

The temperature will not get above freezing[http://forecast.weather.gov/MapClick.php?lat=40.77657244207131&lon=-73.96940231323242#.U7NsoS8ohI6] today.

A National Weather Service graphic, complete with ice fangs[https://twitter.com/NWSNewYorkNY/status/534648215313080320], tells the story in a nutshell:

“Air originating from the North Pole will continue to dive through Canada and into the Midwest and Northeastern states.”

But take heart. By lunchtime, the wind will die down and the wind chill may crack 20.

And you could be upstate, where a difficult-to-comprehend five feet of snow[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/capital-weather-gang/wp/2014/11/18/buffalo-n-y-area-in-the-midst-of-a-truly-insane-lake-effect-snow-storm/] fell near Buffalo and a state of emergency was declared[http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-declares-state-emergency-counties-affected-winter-storm] in 10 counties.

There is nary a snowflake in sight for the city – precipitation is coming on Sunday, but by then it will be back in the 50s. We may see 40 degrees as soon as Thursday.

So fortify yourself with hot chocolate and layers of insulation and get out there.

Here’s what else you need to know.

COMING UP TODAY

• The Rev. Al Sharpton speaks at his Harlem headquarters about, among other things, the front-page article[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/19/nyregion/questions-about-al-sharptons-finances-accompany-his-rise-in-influence.html] in today’s Times about his unpaid taxes. 11 a.m.

• Get your hot books here: The Great Book Giveaway[http://www.buzzfeed.com/jarrylee/a-series-of-very-fortunate-events] in Washington Square Park features the authors Neil Gaiman and Daniel Handler giving away finalists for the National Book Awards. 8:30 to 9 a.m. [Free]

• Mayor de Blasio meets in Washington with Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser to President Obama, and returns to speak at a Police Department executive retreat in the Bronx tonight.

• The city’s new marijuana policy[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/11/nyregion/concerns-in-criminal-justice-system-as-new-york-city-eases-marijuana-policy.html] takes effect: only a ticket for showing under 25 grams, but you can still be arrested and charged with smoking in public.

• A rally in favor of the proposed 10-cent surcharge[http://nypost.com/2014/03/24/proposal-would-levy-10-cent-fee-on-paper-plastic-shopping-bags/] on plastic grocery bags, outside City Hall. Noon.

• Bitcoin experts discuss the hard-to-parse virtual currency at a panel at the King’s College[https://www.eventbrite.com/e/digital-currency-round-table-tickets-14194471045] downtown. 4:30 p.m. [Free, R.S.V.P. required]

• Gastronomy scholars plumb the depths of American pie at Littlefield in Brooklyn[http://www.littlefieldnyc.com/event/698131-masters-social-gastronomy-brooklyn/]. 8 p.m. [Free]

• Nets host Bucks, 7:30 p.m. (YES). Knicks at Timberwolves, 8 p.m. (MSG). Rangers host Flyers, 8 p.m. (NBCS).

• For more events, see The New York TimesArts & Entertainment guide[http://www.nytimes.com/events].

COMMUTE

• Subway[http://new.mta.info/] and PATH[http://www.paalerts.com/recent_pathalerts.aspx]

• L.I.R.R., Metro-North[http://new.mta.info/], N.J. Transit[http://www.njtransit.com/sa/sa_servlet.srv?hdnPageAction=TravelAlertsTo], Amtrak[http://www.amtrak.com/service-alerts-and-notices]

• Roads: Check traffic map[http://newyork.cbslocal.com/traffic/] or radio report on the 1s[http://betaplayer.radio.com/player/1010-wins] or the 8s[http://betaplayer.radio.com/player/wcbs-newsradio-880].

• Alternate-side parking: in effect[http://www.nyc.gov/html/dot/html/motorist/alternate-side-parking.shtml#cal] until Thanksgiving.

• Air travel: La Guardia[http://flightaware.com/live/airport/KLGA], J.F.K.[http://flightaware.com/live/airport/KJFK], Newark[http://flightaware.com/live/airport/KEWR].

IN THE NEWS

• A homeless man was charged with murder in Sunday’s fatal shoving of a subway rider. [New York Times[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/19/nyregion/bronx-subway-killing-investigation.html]]

• The speed limit in Central Park will be lowered to 20 miles an hour from 25, after two pedestrians were killed by cyclists. [A Walk in The Park[http://awalkintheparknyc.blogspot.com/2014/11/central-park-speed-limit-to-be-lowered.html?m=1]]

• How’s Mayor de Blasio doing? Depends on your race. Approval rating among black voters: 71 percent. Hispanic: 56. White: 34. [New York Times[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/19/nyregion/de-blasios-approval-rating-wanes-but-is-still-strong-quinnipiac-poll-finds.html]]

• A woman who died of a heart attack in a Brooklyn hair salon will be tested for Ebola because she had recently been in West Africa. [New York Times[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/19/nyregion/womans-remains-tested-for-ebola-in-new-york.html]]

• The taxi service Uber is under fire for using its internal “God View” tool to track a reporter in New York who covers the company. [BuzzFeed[http://www.buzzfeed.com/johanabhuiyan/uber-is-investigating-its-top-new-york-executive-for-privacy]]

• The organs of a brain-dead 2-year-old girl will not be donated, after her father came forward to oppose donation. [New York Times[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/19/nyregion/organs-of-brooklyn-2-year-old-will-not-be-donated.html]]

• A Yonkers man said he hung the bodies of 25 cats from garbage bags in trees to keep them away from other animals and that they died of natural causes. [Journal News[http://www.lohud.com/story/news/crime/2014/11/18/yonkers-man-charged-dead-cats-hung-tree/19226323/]]

• Tracy Morgan is battling to overcome a severe brain injury, five months after a truck struck his car in New Jersey. [Associated Press[http://bigstory.ap.org.proxy.bc.edu/article/be193956724a450482ae9ddb8ad0b7d6/attorneys-morgan-accident-lawsuit-due-court]]

• Scoreboard: Islanders bottle Lightning[http://nypost.com/2014/11/18/islanders-get-better-of-old-pal-nabokov-lightning-in-5-2-win/], 5-2. Bucks stop Knicks[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/19/sports/basketball/knicks-take-another-giant-step-backward.html], 117-113. Jets bedevil Devils[http://www.nj.com/devils/index.ssf/2014/11/devils_rapid_reaction_14.html], 3-1.

• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Wednesday Briefing[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/19/us/latest-news-after-keystone-jerusalem-attacks-winter-cold.html].

AND FINALLY …

The advent of the city’s new marijuana policy[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/11/nyregion/concerns-in-criminal-justice-system-as-new-york-city-eases-marijuana-policy.html] sent us hunting for the earliest local attempts to regulate the drug.

The first we could find was in June 1914, when The Times reported[http://query.nytimes.com.proxy.bc.edu/mem/archive-free/pdf?res=9B05EED61F39E633A2575AC2A9619C946596D6CF] that the city Board of Health was expanding the state’s new Boylan Law[http://query.nytimes.com.proxy.bc.edu/mem/archive-free/pdf?res=9D02E7DA153FE233A25752C0A9619C946596D6CF], which required prescriptions for some habit-forming drugs.

The board, The Times wrote, had added to the list Cannabis indica, “the Indian hemp from which the East Indian drug called hashish is manufactured.”

The drug, The Times noted, “has practically the same effect as morphine and cocaine.”

The news was buried in an article about another new Board of Health rule, requiring dogs to be muzzled outdoors year round.

The muzzle requirement lasted until 1934[http://query.nytimes.com.proxy.bc.edu/mem/archive/pdf?res=9801E3D7133FE53ABC4A52DFB467838F629EDE].

Kenneth Rosen contributed reporting.

New York Today[http://cityroom.blogs.nytimes.com/category/new-york-today/] is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late morning. You can receive it via email[http://www.nytimes.com/marketing/newyorktoday/].

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com[mailto:nytoday@nytimes.com], or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday[https://twitter.com/search?q=%23NYToday&src=hash&mode=realtime].

Follow the New York Today columnists, Annie Correal[https://twitter.com/anniecorreal] and Andy Newman[https://twitter.com/andylocal], on Twitter.

You can always find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com[http://www.nytoday.com/nytoday].

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141119eabj000rt


Matter
Science
Viruses as a Cure
By CARL ZIMMER
966 words
19 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
When we talk about viruses, usually we focus on the suffering caused by Ebola, influenza[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/the-flu/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] and the like. But our bodies are home to trillions of viruses, and new research hints that some of them may actually be keeping us healthy.

“Viruses have gotten a bad rap,” said Ken Cadwell, an immunologist at New York University School of Medicine. “They don’t always cause disease.”

Dr. Cadwell stumbled by accident onto the first clues about the healing power of viruses. At the time, he was studying the microbiome, the community of 100 trillion microbes living in our bodies. Scientists have long known that the microbiome is important to our health.

One of its crucial functions is ensuring that our intestines develop normally. In a healthy gut, the inner wall is lined with a dense mat of fingerlike projections called villi. When scientists raise germ-free mice in sterile cages, their intestinal villi turn out to be sparse and thin.

Germ-free mice also fail to develop a normal supply of the immune cells nestled in the lining of the gut, which attack pathogens but not harmless microbes. As a result, the germ-free mouse’s gut becomes vulnerable to injuries and infections.

In order for the gut to develop normally, an intimate chemical conversation must take place between the microbiome and host cells. Genetic mutations can disrupt this tête-à-tête, causing immune cells in the gut to attack beneficial bacteria as if they were enemies. A number of experiments suggest that ailments like inflammatory bowel disease[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/crohns-disease/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] may be the result of discord between microbes and their hosts.

Dr. Cadwell set out to understand exactly how it happens. He and his colleagues created mice with a genetic mutation known to increase the risk of inflammatory bowel disease in humans. Then the researchers examined the animals’ immune cells and guts.

In the midst of his research, Dr. Cadwell moved his mice to a new lab. And something odd happened: The move cured the mice.

Dr. Cadwell eventually figured out that the two labs differed in one important way. The old one was contaminated with a virus called murine norovirus, and the new one was virus-free.

Murine norovirus is related to the nasty human strain that causes vomiting[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/symptoms/nausea-and-vomiting/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] and diarrhea[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/symptoms/diarrhea/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] — and has ruined so many cruises. The virus is harmless in healthy mice, but Dr. Cadwell found that when he gave it to his mutant mice, it triggered inflammatory bowel disease.

Dr. Cadwell was struck by how much the virus mimicked the microbiome: harmless in normal mice but triggering disease those with mutant genes. He wondered if the similarity went even further, if the virus served a purpose.

After setting up a new lab at N.Y.U. in 2011, Dr. Cadwell launched an experiment to find out. When he and his colleagues infected germ-free mice with murine norovirus, the animals developed intestines and an immune system that were fairly normal.

“It’s just one virus, but it’s doing many of the things that an entire community of bacteria is doing,” said Dr. Cadwell.

Dr. Cadwell wondered if viruses can restore the gut when it has been disturbed in other ways. Heavy doses of antibiotics[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/health/diseasesconditionsandhealthtopics/antibiotics/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier], which kill off much of the microbiome, can lead to drastic changes in the gut. Some villi die, and the population of immune cells drops. But as bacteria return to the gut, the damage gets fixed.

To see whether viruses have a similar effect, Dr. Cadwell and his colleagues gave antibiotics to normal adult mice for two weeks. When they infected the mice with murine norovirus, their guts returned to normal.

Dr. Cadwell and his colleagues published[http://dx.doi.org.proxy.bc.edu/10.1038/nature13960] the results of their experiment in Nature on Thursday.

Kristine Wylie, a research instructor of pediatrics at Washington University School of Medicine who was not involved in the research, speculated that in real life, certain viruses might be important partners with the microbiome.

“It isn’t hard to imagine that the viral exposures we get as children are important to our development,” she said.

In recent years, medical researchers have been investigating how to harness the microbiome to attack diseases. But Dr. Cadwell doesn’t expect we’ll be taking pills full of viruses to treat immune disorders. In some people, ordinarily harmless viruses might turn out to be dangerous.

Instead, Dr. Cadwell wants to figure out the molecular tricks thatthe viruses are using to improve the health of their hosts. “You’re probably going to come up with things you never imagined,” he said.

At the moment, Dr. Cadwell doesn’t know for sure how the viruses nurture the mice, but he and his colleagues have found one important clue. When they prevented germ-free mice from making a receptor on the surface of their cells, infection with norovirus didn’t lead to an improvement in their guts.

That receptor only latches onto one type of molecule. It’s called Type 1 interferon, and it’s produced by cells when they’re invaded by viruses.

Taken together, findings suggest that some viruses may be working to keep us healthy. “They did a very good job of starting to crack that nut,” said Julie K. Pfeiffer, a virologist at University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center who was not involved in the new study.

David T. Pride, a microbiologist at the University of California, San Diego, said that the new study would spur other researchers to see if they can find similar results in humans.

“The hunt for natural viruses that are beneficial to our immune systems has officially begun,” he said.

When scientists raise germ-free mice in sterile cages, their intestinal villi turn out to be sparse and thin. | New York University Langone

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141119eabj003uy


A
INDIA ISOLATES EBOLA SURVIVOR AT AN AIRPORT
By ELLEN BARRY
62 words
19 November 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
5
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Indian authorities hold 26-year-old man at quarantine facility as a cautionary measure after his semen tests positive for the Ebola virus; man had already been successfully treated for virus, which can linger in semen and other bodily fluids even after it is no longer detectable by blood tests. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141120eabj0002t


Special Section
Your Money
Finding a Retirement Haven to Suit You
By ANN CARRNS
2034 words
19 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Correction Appended

More than 10 years ago, Barbara Zierten and her husband retired to a small town in California’s scenic “gold country,” in the Sierra Nevada foothills.

“It’s beautiful here,” said Ms. Zierten, 73, explaining the attraction of the area east of San Francisco. They also were on a tight budget and reasoned that a small town would be cheaper.

But as time has passed, they have decided the area isn’t an ideal fit. For one thing, the library is open only part time. “I’m a reader,” she said. “So it’s frustrating.” And a bad experience with a hospital has led her to seek treatment for health concerns in San Francisco, a two- to three-hour drive.

Perhaps most dispiriting to Ms. Zierten, a liberal who closely follows politics, is that the population’s views tend to be much more conservative than her own. Particularly irksome is one resident who often puts up large signs critical of Barack Obama: “The latest said, ‘President Ebola.’ ”

“I didn’t do my research,” she conceded. The couple is now contemplating relocating to Sacramento.

As Ms. Zierten learned, shopping for a retirement[http://topics.nytimes.com/your-money/retirement/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] community should ideally involve more than a perusal of real estate circulars, a check of local tax rates and a glance at the average temperature. When choosing a place to live for two decades or more, retirees also should consider whether a community reflects their values, and if the place can truly meet their needs for health care, as well as social and cultural activities as they grow older.

Much research, including a recent report[http://www.aarp.org/research/ppi/liv-com2/policy/Other/articles/what-is-livable-AARP-ppi-liv-com/] from AARP, suggests that most people over age 50 would prefer to stay put as they age. But sometimes, particularly for those who have spent their working lives in expensive urban areas, the need to live on a fixed income pushes retirees to seek locales that are more affordable. Others simply relish a change of pace.

Thinking through what they want, and then taking time to research communities that seem to be a good fit, can help retirees avoid disappointment and potentially costly financial mistakes, Jane Bryant Quinn, a personal finance journalist, advises. “If you’re going to move, start years in advance,” she said.

Catherine Frank, director of the Osher Lifelong Learning Institute at the University of North Carolina at Asheville, urges retirees to visit a prospective community and live there as they would expect to, on a daily basis. Pay attention to how you will shop, how you will get around, how you will occupy your time, she says, and be specific with your requirements. “Do you have heart problems, so you need good cardiac care?” Ms. Frank presses. “Can you live a healthy lifestyle there by going walking or biking?”

One obvious approach is to subscribe to the local newspaper or peruse it online. Catherine Moore, 65, who is retiring in Temple, N.H., early next year after a career at an outdoor equipment retailer, went further than that. Before choosing the place, she read the minutes from its town meeting, a uniquely New England form of government, to find out what sort of issues the local population was facing and how it handled them — “a capsule view of what people value and how they compromise or agree to disagree,” she wrote in an email.

Town meeting notes can often be found online, she said, and can give insight into whether the community is likely to offer friends and neighbors who help one another. “I don’t have to agree with my neighbor’s political views to know that he will be over with his chain saw to clear my drive after an ice storm,” she said.

Buck Bragg, 67, a former corporate insurance[http://topics.nytimes.com/your-money/insurance/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] lawyer, recalls being “intoxicated” at the idea of moving after he retired. He and his wife, Nancy, a former college educator, had initially relocated to Alaska after he graduated from law school but ended up moving to live in Bloomington, Ill., for his career. They enjoyed raising their children there, he said, but welcomed the chance to go elsewhere. After attending a seminar on retirement planning in Asheville, N.C., he realized that the city had much of what they were seeking, including scenic beauty, a low crime rate and senior-friendly activities, like book clubs.

He and his wife had thought they would build a home in a development that offered golf. But after moving to Asheville in 2010, they found they liked doing different things, like yoga. They opted instead to rent downtown, which offers a vibrant restaurant and art scene as well as proximity to mountains for hiking. Mr. Bragg advises renting a home for at least six months initially, to see how easy it is to meet people and chat with local residents who are familiar with neighborhood specifics. “You need to know what they know,” he said.

The Milken Institute, a nonprofit research firm that studies aging, among other subjects, ranks communities based on attributes that it determined were desirable for older Americans. The “Best Cities for Successful Aging”[http://www.milkeninstitute.org/publications/view/524] initiative is meant to spur communities to adapt to aging populations.

The list, which was updated Tuesday, includes many cities and towns — like Madison, Wis., and Iowa City, Iowa — that aren’t necessarily thought of as traditional retirement destinations. Its top locations offer strong economies with employment options, since many people of retirement age want to work at least part time; opportunities for learning and cultural engagement; access to quality health care; and good transportation.

The report developed an index using 84 criteria, based on publicly available data, to rank more than 350 communities. It does include data on the weather and golf courses but goes further. For instance, a town’s “wellness” rank factors in the number of fast-food restaurants per capita and rates of diabetes, as well as the percentage of hospitals offering geriatric services. Its “community engagement” rank reflects the number of libraries and Y.M.C.A.s, as well as the level of senior volunteerism.

College towns appear often on the Milken list, which comes as no surprise to Marilyn and Richard Frey, who settled in Oxford, Miss. — not on the list but home to the University of Mississippi.

The Freys, in their 70s, spent much of their lives as teachers, then had second careers working as managers for the La Quinta hotel chain. While working in El Paso, they bought land for a home in the mountains of New Mexico, but then worried that the location might be too remote as they aged. “We began to rethink the whole thing,” Mrs. Frey said.

They settled on new criteria: affordability, airport proximity for international travel and access to arts and entertainment options. Mr. Frey retired first and took charge of the couple’s relocation effort. He attended a conference hosted by the state of Mississippi, and he returned home with a stack of packets about various communities. “I put them in three piles: yes, no, and maybe,” he recalled.

Mr. Frey then rented a car and drove across the state, visiting 10 promising locations. “I drove the neighborhoods,” he said. “I visited supermarkets.”

A spring trip to Mississippi with his wife led them to focus on Oxford: “I remember the daffodils,” she said. They moved there in early 2002. They like that the downtown square has three bookstores that host talks by visiting authors. They attend theater productions and can take classes and attend sporting events at Ole Miss.

Jerry Swerling, a public relations professor at the University of Southern California’s Annenberg School in Los Angeles, is using an approach somewhat similar to the Freys’, with a heavier emphasis on initial Internet research. He and his wife, Karen, a professional costume designer, love their home and the climate in California, but they want a place on the East Coast with a lower cost of living when they retire next year. They aim to sell their current home and buy a less expensive one.

They have used traditional starting points, like magazine lists of “best retirement places,” as well as ideas from friends. “If a place crops up on multiple lists, I’ll look at it,” he said. Their goal: a lively, urban area with access to Amtrak, so they can travel by train to visit Washington, New York and New England. “We need a place with cinema, museums,” he said.

Ideally, they would like a neighborhood where they can walk a block or two for a drink or a meal. He uses the real estate website Zillow, which allows users to track listings in specific neighborhoods; a mapping function lets users see, say, the number of nearby restaurants and cafes. “To me, cafes are a symbol of civilization,” he said. He also checks a crime mapping site, raidsonline.com[http://raidsonline.com], to gauge a neighborhood’s safety.

One catch, he said, is health care. Many retirement rankings measure the number of doctors per capita, but that’s not helpful if the doctors aren’t in your particular insurance plan. (Individual plans offered under the Affordable Care Act, in particular, might have very narrow doctor networks.) Mr. Swerling, 67, is eligible for Medicare[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/health/diseasesconditionsandhealthtopics/medicare/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] but his wife won’t be yet, so they expect they will have to find an interim health plan for her.

They have narrowed their list to a handful of communities on the mid-Atlantic seaboard, including Richmond, Va., which they like for its rich history. They are planning a driving trip in December and will stay a night or two in several locations.

Deeper reconnaissance is now a priority for Ms. Zierten, the California retiree. She has subscribed to Sacramento Magazine, partly to learn about goings-on in the city, where she and her husband, John Dahlen, hope to move. And she plans to spend time at local breakfast haunts, “eavesdropping” on conversations. “If everyone’s talking about death panels,” she said, referring to a term that conservatives use to argue against the Affordable Care Act, she will probably look elsewhere. She doesn’t mind opposing viewpoints, she said. But, “You want to find a comfort level.”

One quick way to get a general feel for an area’s politics comes via the American Communities Project[http://www.american.edu/spa/american-communities/] at American University’s School of Public Affairs. The project has created an online map that places all United States counties into 15 categories, based on past election results and other factors. You can hover your cursor over the county where you are considering moving, to see if you might find like-minded locals.

Categories include, for instance, “Urban Suburbs,” wealthy, mostly white areas close to big cities that voted heavily for President Obama in 2012. “Evangelical Hubs” are largely white, with lower incomes; these areas are quite conservative and voted overwhelmingly for the Republican candidate, Mitt Romney.

Antoine Yoshinaka, an assistant professor of government at American University, said that if you really wanted to get more specific, you could find information about voting patterns at the precinct level by contacting the elections division of the secretary of state for your state.

But he cautioned that even that approach would not guarantee that your neighbor would share your views: “There’s no one perfect measure.”

Correction: November 21, 2014, Friday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about finding a place to retire misstated the number of criteria used by the Milken Institute in ranking the “Best Cities for Successful Aging.” It is 84 — not 78, the original number of criteria used in 2012.

* Long-in-the-Tooth Dental Advice [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/19/your-money/long-in-the-tooth-dental-advice-.html]

* Science (and Quacks) vs. the Aging Process [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/19/your-money/science-and-quacks-vs-the-aging-process-.html]

As time has passed, Barbara Zierten and her husband, John Dahlen, have decided that the small town in the Sierra Nevada foothills to which they retired isn’t an ideal fit. | Max Whittaker for The New York Times | Perhaps most dispiriting to Ms. Zierten, a liberal who closely follows politics, is that the population’s views tend to be more conservative than her own. | Max Whittaker for The New York Times | James Yang

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141120eabj004xt


A
WOMAN'S REMAINS TO BE TESTED FOR EBOLA IN NEW YORK
By EMMA G FITZSIMMONS
50 words
19 November 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
21
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
New York City health officials say woman who died of apparent heart attack will be tested for Ebola virus out of 'an abundance of caution' because she had recently been in West Africa. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141120eabj0003a


N.Y. / Region
Woman’s Remains Tested for Ebola in New York
By EMMA G. FITZSIMMONS
309 words
19 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
A woman who died of an apparent heart attack in New York City on Tuesday will be tested for the Ebola virus because she had recently been in West Africa, city health officials said.

The woman, whose name was not released, returned to the United States 18 days earlier from one of the four West African countries most affected by the Ebola outbreak, the health department said. She did not show symptoms of the virus before her death.

Health officials said they were testing the woman’s remains out of “an abundance of caution" because the person had a travel history within the 21-day incubation period for the virus. Test results were expected early on Wednesday, the health department said.

Fire Department officials said they were called to a hair salon at 32 Belmont Avenue in Brooklyn around 2:30 p.m. on Tuesday for a patient in cardiac arrest. The woman was pronounced dead at the scene, fire officials said.

On Tuesday night, the police had blocked off the commercial area to the public. Emergency vehicles were gathered, and at least one responder walking out of a business was seen wearing a hazmat suit.

Five airports in the United States, including John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York and Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey, have been screening passengers arriving from Liberia, Sierra Leone, Mali and Guinea. These travelers are monitored for 21 days and checked twice daily for temperatures and symptoms in coordination with public health authorities, according to guidelines from the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Dr. Craig Spencer, a New Yorker who had Ebola, was released from Bellevue Hospital Center last week after recovering from the virus.

Anemona Hartocollis and Matt Krupnick contributed reporting.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141119eabj000p1


World; Africa
Ebola Response in Liberia Is Hampered by Infighting
By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.
1333 words
20 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The global response to the Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] virus in Liberia[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/liberia/index.html?inline=nyt-geo] is being hampered by poor coordination and serious disagreements between Liberian officials and the donors and health agencies fighting the epidemic, according to minutes of top-level meetings and interviews with participants.

Even now, three months after donors began pouring resources into Liberia, many confirmed cases still go unreported, countries refuse to change plans to erect field hospitals in the wrong places, families cannot find out whether their relatives in treatment are alive or dead, health workers sent to take temperatures sometimes lack thermometers, and bodies have been cremated because a larger cemetery was not yet open.

The detailed accounts of high-level meetings obtained by The New York Times, the most recent from Monday, lift the veil on the messy and contentious process of running the sprawling response to Liberia’s epidemic, one that now involves more than a hundred government agencies, charities and donors from around the world.

Despite these problems, with help from donors, Liberia, one of the three most afflicted West African countries, and the one with the highest death toll, has seen new cases drop to about 20 a day from about 100 a day two months ago. Experts attribute that to fearful Liberians touching one another less, more safe burials of bodies and distribution of protective gear to health care workers. But they also warn that cases are now holding steady and could explode again.

Participants in the meetings of the Incident Management System — which replaced the National Ebola Task Force — said the atmosphere in the meetings should not be characterized as chaotic or bogged down in bickering, instead calling them “collegial” and “effective” although one who spoke on condition of anonymity described “showmanship and political posturing.” Senior officials of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention who attended — Dr. Frank J. Mahoney and Dr. Kevin M. De Cock — said in an email that there were “differences of opinion — accompanied by passionate discussions.”

At the meeting on Monday, Dr. De Cock cited serious logistics problems, including regular hospitals that cannot separate out Ebola patients, counties with no ambulances and even temperature takers with no thermometers.

On Nov. 12, the representative of the United Nations secretary general complained that “hundreds” of vehicles had been made available but there was always a shortage. Asking where they are, he added: “The recipient also has to be accountable, just as the donor.”

Also, the support documents with the minutes indicate, there is no national plan for Ebola survivors — either for reuniting them with their families or for using them to do nursing tasks because they are thought to be immune.

A report on the issue reads: “The current and planned work presented by the partners and government for survivors can be characterized as fragmented and lacking in scope, scale, comprehensiveness, evidence base and survivor-driven programming.”

American military helicopters ferrying doctors to remote areas were forbidden to fly back not only patients but even blood samples; recently samples from a village had to be walked to a road four hours away. At Monday’s meeting, according to the minutes, Dr. De Cock called this “unacceptable,” adding, “This has to change this week.”

Dr. Hans Rosling, a Swedish epidemiologist and consultant to Liberia’s Health Ministry, said that the helicopter order came “from somewhere in America.” In an interview, he cited problems not listed in the minutes: one Asian and two European donor countries are insisting on building new Ebola field hospitals in Monrovia, where hospitals have empty beds, rather than in remote counties where beds are desperately needed; they insisted because they announced those plans two months ago, he said. The national case count was not reported for two days recently because the government employee compiling it went unpaid and stopped working. The minutes of the Incident Management System were made available along with PowerPoints and other documents by an expert who said the disorganization of the Ebola effort should be made public.

The meetings are usually chaired by Tolbert Nyenswah, the deputy health minister, and include representatives from the Centers for Disease Control, the World Health Organization, the World Bank, the United Nations Mission for Ebola Emergency Response, numerous United Nations agencies, the United States Agency for International Development, the United States Army, Doctors Without Borders and medical, aid or military representatives from many other countries. Dr. Nyenswah and other ministry officials could not be reached for comment; Dr. Rosling has worked with the ministry since October.

The minutes make it clear that accuracy of the national case count is shaky.

On Nov. 5, Dr. Rosling said, “We are absolutely sure that we cannot be sure about the data.”

In an interview, he said that to improve reporting of cases, he gave a $13,000 Swedish government grant to ”a chronically honest church lady” to buy cellphone scratch cards for health officials in remote areas. The C.D.C. is bringing satellite phones to areas that lack cell service.

Despite problems, he said, the response is going better than he had hoped. He compared it to Dunkirk, the hasty 1940 evacuation of British troops from France, which he described as “chaotic, but a success.”

In the minutes, Liberian officials regularly complain about the donors, and the donors argue back. On Nov. 12, James Dorbor Jallah, the task force’s deputy manager, said: “People will sit in D.C. or Geneva and want to direct what is happening here.”

The health minister, Dr. Walter T. Gwenigale, backed him up, complaining that “the U.N. and other agencies got their money before the ink was even dry,” while, he said, a group run by a Liberian pastor to teach rural people about Ebola “has not gotten one cent.”

On Sunday, President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf replaced Dr. Gwenigale without explaining why, but said he would remain an adviser. Dr. Emmanuel T. Dolo, President Sirleaf’s youth adviser, complained that the donors were “showing a level of disrespect” by judging Liberian community groups by “harsh standards” and “Western standards.”

At the same meeting, Mr. Nyenswah, the deputy health minister, pointed to his government’s “team leaders” and warned, “Partners in the room have not been engaging them and involving them in strategy — but you have to.”

A representative of the United Nations Children’s Fund replied that the local pastor needed to prove he could do the work.

Two days later, Shiyong Wang, the World Bank representative, confirmed that United Nations agencies had received nearly all their money and that the Liberian government had received only 7 percent of the $23 million allotted to it. But, he said, the government had not produced required documentation — not even, for example, names of dead health workers whose families awaited compensation. He criticized the government’s “overly complex and bureaucratic approval process,” including three signatures on each document.

Dr Rosling said the three signatures were an anticorruption measure. Beneficiary lists are hard to produce, he said, when Liberians have children whose births are often not officially recorded. And it was “arrogant,” he said, for donors to, for example, assign contracts to operate field hospitals without Health Ministry permission.

The Nov. 12 meeting appeared to end on a bitter note, with Mr. Nyenswah telling every agency to document within 48 hours what people it had and what their jobs were. “If you don’t give us this list,” he concluded, “you are not allowed in this meeting.”

The meeting of Nov. 14 opens with Mr. Nyenswah reminding scientists not to do research without permission from a government ethics review board. On Nov. 17, Dr. Dolo complains that “There are a lot of people in this room who never contribute anything to this meeting.”

Medical workers handling a blood sample of an Ebola victim as the girl, 9, lay in a shawl in Monrovia, Liberia. She later died. | Daniel Berehulak for The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141120eabk000ru


World; Africa
Ebola’s Economic Cost Re-Examined
By RICK GLADSTONE
186 words
20 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier]’s economic cost to sub-Saharan Africa may only be a fraction of the worst-case forecast made last month because of progress since then in halting the spread of the disease, a World Bank[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/w/world_bank/index.html?inline=nyt-org] official said Wednesday, but he warned against relaxation in the containment effort.

The official, Francisco Ferreira, the World Bank’s chief economist for Africa, made the assertion while answering questions during a lecture in Johannesburg. His remarks came against the backdrop of other signs that Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier]’s expansion may be slowing in Liberia and Guinea, two of the three worst-afflicted countries, but still increasing in the third, Sierra Leone.

The World Bank said in October[http://www.worldbank.org.proxy.bc.edu/en/region/afr/publication/the-economic-impact-of-the-2014-ebola-epidemic-short-and-medium-term-estimates-for-west-africa] that the regional economic losses attributable to Ebola, in the bleakest outcome, could exceed $32 billion by the end of 2015, when taking into account all the disruptions including declines in productivity, cross-border trade and tourism. But Mr. Ferreira said on Wednesday that the cost may be closer to $3 billion or $4 billion.

* Ebola Response in Liberia Is Hampered by Infighting[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/20/world/africa/ebola-response-in-liberia-is-hampered-by-infighting-.html]

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141120eabk000ry


DISRUPTIONS
Style Desk; SECTE
Phony Friends, Real Profit
By NICK BILTON
969 words
20 November 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
2
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
I am the ruler of worlds. Let me rephrase that: I am the ruler of one very small world of social media bots.

My Twitter bots resemble real people, with photos for avatars and bios. Meet Fabiola Shaffer: She is pretty, has long brown hair, is a writer and researcher in New York and loves chocolate. Karri B. Segal is a sophisticated woman in her mid-50s, works in advertising in New York and likes Etsy. Rick Engbarg is a tuxedo-wearing rocket scientist who freelances at SpaceX and lives in San Francisco.

Never mind that they don't exist, figments of a few lines of computer code. I can command them to retweet certain topics (like chocolate or Ebola), favorite a tweet or follow anyone who follows them. Compared with most bot collections, which number in the tens of thousands and are often called bot farms, my enclave of 20 bots is more like a bot petting zoo.

We've known about bots for some time (I wrote about them earlier this year, and how anyone can buy a few thousand ''friends'' for $5). But making these fake accounts used to be difficult, requiring lots of programming deft. Now, even I can make my own -- and trust me, my programming skills are minimal.

As a result, a giant pyramid scheme has emerged on social media, where fake friends now command real money.

Here's how the pyramid works: With minimal effort, I downloaded a piece of software called Twitter Supremacy. For $50 for a six-month license, the software (which violates Twitter's terms of service agreement) lets me fabricate an unlimited number of friends.

Furthermore, I can program these fake accounts to tweet, retweet and follow others automatically, as if they were living, breathing users. (There are dozens of similar services that do this for Instagram, Vine, Twitter, Tumblr, YouTube and Facebook.)

With an army of fake friends at my disposal, I can now charge people who want to increase their number of followers or promote certain tweets. One bot creator I talked to (who spoke only on the condition of anonymity because his work violates user agreements with social media sites) said that he manages hundreds of thousands of Instagram bots and makes a good living by pushing posts to the app's popular page. He can also manufacture all kinds of engagement, including following accounts and commenting on photos.

Who pays for these services? The bot creator said that his clients include well-known celebrities and brands, along with everyday people who want a social media ego boost. (The bot maker wouldn't let me share whom he works with, but the list includes A-list celebrities and a fast-food chain.)

This is where the real money is exchanged. Consider, for example, that a celebrity like Kim Kardashian, who has 25 million Twitter followers, has been paid $10,000 to tweet about ShoeDazzle. Or that Charlie Sheen, who has 11 million followers, was reportedly paid $50,000 to tweet about internships.com.

What if many of their followers are fake? Numerous reports have found that celebrities, politicians and companies often buy fake followers to enhance their perceived importance online.

The practice is so widespread that StatusPeople, a social media management company in London, has a web tool called the Fake Follower Check that it says can tell how many fake followers a person has. According to that tool, 6 percent of Ms. Kardashian's followers are fake, as are 12 percent of Mr. Sheen's. Mr. Sheen did not respond to a request for comment. Ms. Kardashian, speaking through her publicist, said she was has never purchased followers.

(It should be noted that celebrities and other users often have no control over the number of their fake followers. Bot farms will often follow big-name celebrities, regardless of whether a celebrity is a client or not.)

Yet it doesn't seem to matter. For a single tweet, Facebook update or Instagram photo, brands will pay $1,500 to $2,500 to lower-tier celebrities like Marlon Wayans or Holly Madison, and up to $50,000 to upper-tier celebrities like Ms. Kardashian and Mr. Sheen.

Social media companies are well aware of this. Each year, Facebook has said it finds 67 million to 137 million fake accounts on its service. Twitter said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that 8.5 percent, or around 24 million, of its accounts are bots. And Instagram is littered with millions of bots that copy people's profiles, share their photos and leave comments on images.

But in general, social media sites are more concerned with eradicating malware and viruses than with eliminating bots that tweet about boy bands.

What's striking about this pyramid scheme is just how simple it is. The bot creator I spoke with said that the software is so easy to use that teenagers are getting into the act now as a way to supplement their allowance.

It also taps into the hunger of advertisers to reach consumers on social media. ''This all points to social media advertising being one giant bubble,'' said Tim Hwang, chief scientist at the Pacific Social Architecting Corporation, a research group that focuses on bots. ''Everyone is really happy to say, 'Look at the numbers that we got, it must have been successful,' even though the retweets and favs are inflated by bots.''

So there you have it. If you want to make a little extra cash, and a lot of fake friends, there's plenty of room on the social media pyramid scheme. You can have your bots become friends with mine. They'll even follow you back.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASON RAISH)

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141120eabk0005a


First Draft
Another Bit of Action on the Immigration Front
JULIA PRESTON
180 words
20 November 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
The Obama administration seems to be trying to dispatch all its immigration business in a single day.

On Thursday morning, as the country was awaiting President Obama’s speech on his executive actions on immigration[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/21/us/obama-immigration-speech.html], Homeland Security officials announced that they would give temporary protected status to people currently living in the United States from the three countries most affected by the Ebola epidemic: Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone. They will be able to remain here and to work for up to 18 months.

The temporary status for those foreigners is separate from the larger deportation protections Mr. Obama will announce tonight. The long-existing program is for people who temporarily cannot return to their countries because of a natural disaster or medical crisis, like the Ebola outbreak. The status will be available only to people from those countries who were here as of Thursday and who pass security background checks. It mainly includes legal immigrants, officials said, although undocumented foreigners will also be eligible.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141120eabk00231


Fixes
Opinion
Colombia’s Data-Driven Fight Against Crime
By TINA ROSENBERG
2152 words
20 November 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
One Monday in 1988, El Mundo newspaper of Medellín, Colombia, reported, as it did every Monday, on the violent deaths in the city of two million people over the weekend. An article giving an hour-by-hour description of the deaths from Saturday night to Sunday night was remarkable for, among other things, the journalist’s skill in finding different ways to report a murder. “Someone took the life of Luís Alberto López at knife point … Luís Alberto Patiño ceased to exist with a bullet in his head … Mario Restrepo turned up dead … An unidentified person killed Néstor Alvarez with three shots.” In reporting 27 different murders, the author repeated his phrasing only once.

Colombia has always been a violent country, but after the 1948 assassination of Jorge Eliécer Gaitán, a politician who threatened to break the oligarchy’s stranglehold, hundreds of thousands of people were killed over the next five years. The killings were due to scorched-earth battles between the two major political parties — both parties of the upper classes whose major difference was their names. Violence acquired capital letters and became known as La Violencia.

Political violence begat other kinds of violence. The killings were worst in the countryside and millions fled to the cities, which became vast settlements of the unmoored, crowds without community — a breeding ground for crime. The judicial system and the police broke down completely during La Violencia. While most of the violence stopped after a military coup and then a pact between the two parties, the government never recovered its legitimacy nor those institutions their strength.

The dark ages returned with the rise of cocaine in the late 1970s. By the late 1980s and early 1990, the leading cause of death in several of Colombia’s major cities was homicide. The most deadly and infamous was Medellín, but this was also true in Cali.

In 1983, there were 23 homicides per 100,000 people in Cali. Ten years later the rate had reached 120, and some counts put it slightly higher. That’s more than twice as high as the homicide rate ever reached in Detroit, the most dangerous city in any developed country, which peaked in 1993 at 57.6.

But crime in Cali changed after Rodrigo Guerrero became mayor.

What Guerrero did to make Cali safer was remarkable because it worked, and because of the novelty of his strategy. Before becoming mayor, Guerrero was not a politician, but a Harvard-trained epidemiologist who was president of the Universidad del Valle in Cali. He set out to prevent murder the way a doctor prevents disease. What public health workers are doing now to stop the spread of Ebola, Guerrero did in Cali to stop the spread of violence.

Although his ideas have now been used in dozens of cities throughout Latin America, they are worth revisiting because they are not employed in the places that need them most. The most violent places in Latin America are Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala — indeed, they are among the most violent countries in the world not at war. The wave of youth migration to the United States is from these countries, and the refugees are largely fleeing violence.

One small municipality in El Salvador, Santa Tecla, has employed Cali’s strategies since about 10 years ago, and the homicide rate has dropped there. But Santa Tecla is an anomaly. Most of the region’s cities have not tried to do what Guerrero did — and they are failing to protect their citizens.

“He was one of the pioneers,” said Mayra Buvinic, who in the 1990s was the head of the social development division and chief adviser on violence to the Inter-American Development Bank. “With his medical background, he used an epidemiological approach to really track down and define the problem, collect reliable data and develop interventions based on data.”

It was remarkable to even focus on prevention at all. “That was not the tradition in Latin America,” said Buvinic. “Until then, if people dealt with violence it was punitive. This was a smarter approach.”

Mayors in Colombia are permitted just one term at a time. After leaving office Guerrero spread his methods around Latin America and other parts of the world. In September, he became the first winner of the Roux Prize — an award of $100,000 given by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation for using evidence to improve public health.

When Guerrero became mayor in 1992, the conventional wisdom was that the vast bulk of Cali’s murders stemmed from disputes over cocaine trafficking — at the time, the Cali Cartel was overtaking the Medellín Cartel in control of the cocaine trade.

But Guerrero didn’t assume, he measured. The police, courts and every other institution that counted murders all came up with different figures. Guerrero had weekly meetings with these groups and academic researchers to find more accurate figures. Then they mapped homicides by time and neighborhood.

That took about a year — and his term was only two and a half years — but he found something important: deaths were concentrated on weekends, especially payday weekends. (On his first New Year’s Eve as mayor, there were 22 homicides in one night.) The same was true in Medellín, which was why El Mundo’s crime reporters needed dozens of ways to describe violent death, as the Eskimo people are said to have for snow.

“Things that happen on the weekend in our country are often associated with alcohol,” Guerrero said. So Cali started to look at alcohol in the blood of victims (few perpetrators were caught) — and found a large percentage of victims had very high levels. “My initial hypothesis was that this was drug trafficking,” he said. “But the traffickers were not going to wait for weekends to resolve their conflicts — and get their victims drunk.”

The astronomical murder rate was related to the cocaine trade, Guerrero concluded — but only indirectly. Cocaine created social disruption and intensified an already-violent culture. “Drug trafficking was like H.I.V.,” Guerrero said. “It interferes with the defense mechanisms — in this case police and justice.” Those institutions were corrupted and degraded to the point where practically no one paid a penalty for murder — a suspect was identified in only 3 percent of homicides and convicted in a small percentage of those.

Guerrero banned the sale of alcohol after 1 a.m. on weeknights and 2 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays. (That 2 a.m. is considered early closing says a lot about the problem.) As he expected, bar owners — and bar patrons — objected. Guerrero asked bars to try it for three months, but success was obvious nearly instantly[http://www-ncbi-nlm-nih-gov.proxy.bc.edu/pmc/articles/PMC3156368/]. The effects were big enough to overcome the objections.

The other decree banned the carrying of guns — enforced by checkpoints and pat-downs — on payday weekends and holidays. The army, which held a monopoly on the manufacture and sale of guns, fought the law. But again, success was persuasive. Researchers compared gun ban days to similar days with no ban in Cali and in Bogotá, which replicated the program. They found that neighborhoods with the ban saw 14 percent fewer[http://jama.jamanetwork.com.proxy.bc.edu/article.aspx?articleid=192444] homicides in Cali and 13 percent fewer in Bogotá than neighborhoods without restrictions.

Together, those two decrees cut the homicide rate where they were instituted by 35 percent.

There was more: Since the data showed that a large majority of offenders were under 24, Guerrero instituted a curfew[http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:YF6Y3Zsz5L0J:https://www.longwoods.com/product/download/code/17590+&cd=6&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&client=safari] for young people in high crime neighborhoods between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m. on weekends.

Cali also tried to improve its police operations. The mayor ran a weekly meeting of the heads of all departments connected with law enforcement. Together, they analyzed the violence statistics for the previous week and adjusted plans accordingly — an early version of CompStat, New York City’s data and accountability system that was so effective in cutting crime in the 1990s. The national government established specially trained and equipped brigades to investigate crimes in Cali, and the rate of identifying perpetrators went from 3 percent to 18 percent.

The city set up programs to help police officers finish high school — only half of the force had done so. It built attractive houses for officers, in the hope (perhaps futile) that they would become more resistant to the traffickers’ bribes. In addition, the city convened various city organizations — labor, business, church and others — to design programs to reduce urban violence. At the committee’s suggestion, Cali created a city agency called Desepaz, an acronym for development, security and peace. Desepaz tried to create civic connections by bringing government closer to the people. It established offices in the most dangerous neighborhoods that offered legal aid, mediation, and lawyers and social workers expert in family violence. Police departments began meeting with residents to hear their concerns.

The homicide rate declined. From its peak of 120 in 1994, it declined to 80 in 1997. Homicides also dropped in Bogotá and Medellín, which adopted Cali’s program.

Was Guerrero’s program responsible for the drop? It’s hard to separate the effects of the program from outside factors, such as the economy, Colombia’s guerrilla wars and the drug trade (most of the heads of the Cali Cartel were captured in 1995, which could cut either way on homicide). But the reduction in homicide in these three cities was much greater than in the rest of the country.

It’s difficult to say which parts were responsible. There is strong evidence that the gun and alcohol restrictions worked, but the fact that the overall rate in Cali didn’t start to drop until 1994 indicates that other pieces of the program — which were slower to implement and didn’t yield immediate results — mattered as well.

Guerrero went on to spread his ideas. Working with the Pan-American Health Organization and the Inter-American Development Bank, he took his epidemiological methods to 18 other countries.

“The approach was very low-cost and pragmatic,” said Joan Serra Hoffman, a senior specialist in crime and violence prevention in Latin America and the Caribbean at the World Bank. “You could see it was conceived by someone who was an academic and a policy maker. It can be fully operational for between $50,000 and $80,000.”

The record of other cities was mixed, which was to be expected; local implementation is all. Buvinic said the best results came in cities with the highest rates of violence — the low-hanging fruit. Guerrero believes the key was having leaders willing to let the evidence guide their decisions. “It’s much easier to let politics tell you how to use the information you collect,” he said.

Perhaps the showcase of Guerrero’s ideas is not Cali, but Bogotá, which never wavered in its implementation of the program. The city’s homicide rate, which was more than 80 per 100,000 in 1993, is 16.7 per 100,000 today.

The gains did not hold in Cali, however. Mayors after Guerrero dismantled almost all the program (two left office early due to accusations of corruption or ties to traffickers). The murder rate went back up again.

But Guerrero is once again mayor of Cali, and once again, the homicide rate is dropping. This year it is on track to drop by more than 30 percent, which would put it at under 60 per 100,000.

“The violence today is completely different than it was during the first term,” said Felipe Montoya, who runs Desepaz. “Now it’s organized crime.” But Guerrero’s strategy still works because it’s not a policy, it’s a process: The important piece is collecting and using data to design the approach.

Cali still closes the bars early (sort of — at 3 a.m.) on dangerous nights, and has brought back restrictions on guns and the curfews in affected neighborhoods. The city still works extensively in those neighborhoods, especially with young men — “we’ve learned we have to stay a long time,” said Guerrero. But he said that this time the key is that Cali has gotten a lot of help from the national government: surveillance cameras, more police officers, more equipment. “To date we’ve neutralized 86 different criminal gangs — capturing them with sufficient proof for conviction. And where we’ve neutralized the gangs, the problems disappear.”

Join Fixes on Facebook[http://www.facebook.com/home.php?#!/pages/Social-Change-New-York-Times/147881585260868] and follow updates on twitter.com/nytimesfixes[http://twitter.com/nytimesfixes]. To receive e-mail alerts for Fixes columns, sign up here.[http://eepurl.com/ABIxL]

Tina Rosenberg won a Pulitzer Prize for her book “The Haunted Land: Facing Europe’s Ghosts After Communism[http://www.randomhouse.com/catalog/display.pperl?isbn=9780679744993].” She is a former editorial writer for The Times and the author, most recently, of “Join the Club: How Peer Pressure Can Transform the World[http://books.wwnorton.com/books/Join-the-Club/]” and the World War II spy story e-book “D for Deception.”

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141121eabk0008d


A
VIRUS'S ECONOMIC COST RE-EXAMINED
44 words
20 November 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
7
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Francisco Ferreira, World Bank's chief economist for Africa, says Ebola's economic cost to sub-Saharan Africa may be $3 billion or $4 billion, fraction of worst-case forecast of $32 billion made in October. (S)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141121eabk00035


A
INTERNAL DISCORD HAMPERS A FIGHT AGAINST EBOLA
By DONALD G MCNEIL JR
78 words
20 November 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
1
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Records and interviews show that global response to fighting Ebola in Liberia is being hampered by poor coordination and serious disagreements between Liberian officials and donors and health agencies; detailed accounts lift veil on messy and contentious process of running sprawling response to Liberia's epidemic, one that now involves more than a hundred government agencies, charities and donors from around world. Photo (M)

Photograph

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141121eabk0003e


A
WOMAN WHO DIED IN BROOKLYN TESTS NEGATIVE FOR EBOLA
57 words
20 November 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
24
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Brooklyn woman who had died of an apparent heart attack after returning from Guinea tests negative for the Ebola virus; was being monitored because she was within the 21-day incubation period and had recently been in one of the countries most affected by the outbreak. (S)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141121eabk0003i


Disruptions
Fashion & Style
Social Media Bots Offer Phony Friends and Real Profit
By NICK BILTON
1011 words
20 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Correction Appended

I am the ruler of worlds. Let me rephrase that: I am the ruler of one very small world of social media bots.

My Twitter bots resemble real people, with photos for avatars and bios. Meet Fabiola Shaffer: She is pretty, has long brown hair, is a writer and researcher in New York and loves chocolate. Karri B. Segal is a sophisticated woman in her mid-50s, works in advertising in New York and likes Etsy. Rick Engbarg is a tuxedo-wearing rocket scientist who freelances at SpaceX and lives in San Francisco.

Never mind that they don’t exist (and their accounts have since been suspended), figments of a few lines of computer code. I can command them to retweet certain topics (like chocolate or Ebola), favorite a tweet or follow anyone who follows them. Compared with most bot collections, which number in the tens of thousands and are often called bot farms, my enclave of 20 bots is more like a bot petting zoo.

We’ve known about bots for some time (I wrote about them[http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/04/20/friends-and-influence-for-sale-online/] earlier this year, and how anyone can buy a few thousand “friends” for $5). But making these fake accounts used to be difficult, requiring lots of programming deft. Now, even I can make my own — and trust me, my programming skills are minimal.

As a result, a giant pyramid scheme has emerged on social media, where fake friends now command real money.

Here’s how the pyramid works: With minimal effort, I downloaded a piece of software called Twitter Supremacy. For $50 for a six-month license, the software (which violates Twitter’s terms of service agreement) lets me fabricate an unlimited number of friends.

Furthermore, I can program these fake accounts to tweet, retweet and follow others automatically, as if they were living, breathing users. (There are dozens of similar services that do this for Instagram[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/i/instagram/index.html?inline=nyt-org], Vine, Twitter, Tumblr, YouTube and Facebook.)

With an army of fake friends at my disposal, I can now charge people who want to increase their number of followers or promote certain tweets. One bot creator I talked to (who spoke only on the condition of anonymity because his work violates user agreements with social media sites) said that he manages hundreds of thousands of Instagram bots and makes a good living by pushing posts to the app’s popular page. He can also manufacture all kinds of engagement, including following accounts and commenting on photos.

Who pays for these services? The bot creator said that his clients include well-known celebrities and brands, along with everyday people who want a social media ego boost. (The bot maker wouldn’t let me share whom he works with, but the list includes A-list celebrities and a fast-food chain.)

This is where the real money is exchanged. Consider, for example, that a celebrity like Kim Kardashian, who has 25 million Twitter followers[https://twitter.com/KimKardashian], has been paid $10,000[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/01/29/kim-kardashian-snoop-dogg_n_1240339.html] to tweet about ShoeDazzle. Or that Charlie Sheen[https://twitter.com/charliesheen], who has 11 million followers, was reportedly paid $50,000[http://www.vulture.com/2012/01/how-much-can-a-celebrity-make-for-tweeting.html] to tweet about internships.com[http://internships.com].

What if many of their followers are fake? Numerous reports[http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/04/25/researchers-call-out-twitter-celebrities-with-suspicious-followings/] have found that celebrities, politicians and companies often buy fake followers to enhance their perceived importance online.

The practice is so widespread that StatusPeople,[http://statuspeople.com/] a social media management company in London, has a web tool called the Fake Follower Check[http://fakers.statuspeople.com/] that it says can tell how many fake followers a person has. According to that tool, 6 percent of Ms. Kardashian’s[https://fakers.statuspeople.com/kimkardashian] followers are fake, as are 12 percent of Mr. Sheen’s[https://fakers.statuspeople.com/Charliesheen]. Mr. Sheen did not respond to a request for comment. Ms. Kardashian, speaking through her publicist, said she was has never purchased followers.

(It should be noted that celebrities and other users often have no control over the number of their fake followers. Bot farms will often follow big-name celebrities, regardless of whether a celebrity is a client or not.)

Yet it doesn’t seem to matter. For a single tweet, Facebook update or Instagram photo, brands will pay[http://celeb-brand-agent.com/2014/03/27/how-much-does-a-celebrity-tweet-cost/] $1,500 to $2,500 to lower-tier celebrities like Marlon Wayans or Holly Madison, and up to $50,000 to upper-tier celebrities like Ms. Kardashian and Mr. Sheen.

Social media companies are well aware of this. Each year, Facebook has said it finds 67 million to 137 million[https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2014/02/10/facebook-at-least-67-million-accounts-are-fake/] fake accounts on its service. Twittersaid in a filing[http://www.searchenginejournal.com/twitter-reveals-many-active-users-bots-number-may-higher-think/113793/] with the Securities and Exchange Commission that 5 percent, or around 24 million, of its accounts are bots. And Instagram is littered with millions of bots that copy people’s profiles, share their photos and leave comments on images.

But in general, social media sites are more concerned with eradicating malware and viruses than with eliminating bots that tweet about boy bands.

What’s striking about this pyramid scheme is just how simple it is. The bot creator I spoke with said that the software is so easy to use that teenagers are getting into the act now as a way to supplement their allowance.

It also taps into the hunger of advertisers to reach consumers on social media. “This all points to social media advertising being one giant bubble,” said Tim Hwang, chief scientist at the Pacific Social Architecting Corporation, a research group that focuses on bots. “Everyone is really happy to say, ‘Look at the numbers that we got, it must have been successful,’ even though the retweets and favs are inflated by bots.”

So there you have it. If you want to make a little extra cash, and a lot of fake friends, there’s plenty of room on the social media pyramid scheme. You can have your bots become friends with mine. They’ll even follow you back.

Correction: November 20, 2014, Thursday

An earlier version of this article misstated the percentage of accounts on Twitter that the company said are bots. It is 5 percent, not 8.5 percent.

Jason Raish

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141119eabk005bs


Metropolitan Desk; SECTA
Woman Who Died in Brooklyn Tests Negative for Ebola
By MARC SANTORA and EMMA G. FITZSIMMONS
225 words
20 November 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
24
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
A woman who died, apparently of a heart attack, at a Brooklyn hair salon and who had recently been in one of the countries most affected by the Ebola outbreak tested negative for the virus, New York City health officials said on Wednesday.

The woman, whose name was not released, came to the United States almost three weeks ago from Guinea, in West Africa, the city's health department said. She did not show symptoms of the virus before her death, but was being monitored because she was within the 21-day incubation period for the virus.

The city has been tracking about 300 people who have traveled in West Africa.

Fire Department officials said they were called to the hair salon, African Queen Hair Braiding, on Tuesday for a patient in cardiac arrest. The woman was pronounced dead there.

Jim Long, a Fire Department spokesman, said the medical examiner's office collected blood specimens from the woman and gave them to the health department for testing.

The only person to receive an Ebola diagnosis in the city, Dr. Craig Spencer, recovered and was released on Nov. 11 from Bellevue Hospital Center. He contracted the virus while in Guinea with the aid group Doctors Without Borders.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141120eabk0005f


World; Africa
Ebola Spread Has Slowed in Liberia, C.D.C. Says
By HELENE COOPER
656 words
21 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
WASHINGTON — The international response to West Africa’s Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] epidemic, coupled with more effective action by local communities, has stopped the exponential spread of the disease in one of the hardest-hit countries, Liberia[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/liberia/index.html?inline=nyt-geo], the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/c/centers_for_disease_control_and_prevention/index.html?inline=nyt-org] said on Thursday.

In confirming what health officials and news organizations had reported for weeks, Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the C.D.C. director, said that a previous worse-case projection by the agency that the Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] epidemic could lead to 1.4 million cases by late January unless effective measures were taken to contain it was no longer applicable, crediting what he called “good progress” in Liberia.

“There’s been a substantial change in the trend,” Dr. Frieden said during a conference call with reporters. “There is no longer exponential increase, and in fact, there’s been a decrease” in the rate of infections in Liberia.

Health officials are less certain of the rate of infections in Guinea, another of the three most affected countries. Dr. Frieden said that in the third country, Sierra Leone, “both their epidemic and their response are several weeks behind Liberia.” He added that he hoped an increase in international aid to Sierra Leone, particularly from Britain, would help bring down the numbers there as well.

His comments came a day after the Pentagon said it was scaling back the size and number of Ebola treatment facilities that American troops are building in Liberia. Defense officials said that instead of building 17 units, as promised by President Obama, the military would build 10 treatment facilities, and that seven of them would have 50 beds each, rather than the 100 beds previously planned.

In addition, two other units that were to have been built by American troops will be built instead by an international aid group, administration officials said. Defense officials also said they were scaling back the number of American military personnel responding to the epidemic in West Africa, to 3,000 from 4,000.

Still, American defense and health officials cautioned that Ebola remained a significant health crisis in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, and warned against letting up in the international aid effort there.

“There have been big changes in community behavior,” Dr. Frieden said. But he added that there were still, by some estimates, 1,000 to 2,000 new Ebola cases a week — the bulk of those now in Guinea and Sierra Leone. He said the effort to combat Ebola would continue to require “a massive undertaking” to chase each case, including finding people who have had contact with the virus.

The World Health Organization[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/w/world_health_organization/index.html?inline=nyt-org]’s latest update on Ebola, posted Wednesday on its website, said the number of confirmed, probable and suspected cases totaled 15,145, with 5,420 reported deaths, as of Sunday. Nearly all were in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, with two deaths in the United States.

Though reported cases no longer appear to be increasing in Liberia or Guinea, the update said, “transmission remains intense and widespread in Sierra Leone,” with Freetown, the capital, remaining the worst-affected area.

The update also said that at least 584 health care workers, who are among those most at risk of contracting the disease, had been infected, and that 329 had died.

Cuban health officials reported Tuesday that a Cuban doctor, one of the 165 medical workers sent by Cuba to help battle the Ebola outbreak, had become the first in that group to be infected. The doctor, identified as Felix Baez, had been treating patients in Sierra Leone and was flown to Switzerland for treatment.

* Health Officials Reassess Strategy to Combat Ebola in Liberia[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/13/world/africa/officials-consider-scaling-back-of-ebola-centers-in-liberia.html]

A security guard in West Point, a densely populated neighborhood of Monrovia, the Liberian capital, during a government-ordered quarantine in September. | Daniel Berehulak for The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141121eabl000mf


First Draft
Today in Politics
THE NEW YORK TIMES
1423 words
21 November 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
Democrats Worry Obama Can’t Close the Deal on Immigration

Good Friday morning from Washington, where reaction to President Obama’s immigration plan has played out in some unpredictable ways. Republican governors are irritated because the issue hijacked their meeting in Florida, and Democrats worry that the White House will stumble in its sales job. In the Senate, Republicans preparing to take the helm are considering a return to the 60-vote majority needed to end filibusters.

Now that President Obama is forging ahead[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/21/us/obama-immigration-speech.html?hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&module=a-lede-package-region®ion=top-news&WT.nav=top-news] with his plan to protect up to five million illegal immigrants from deportation, he has to justify the move to the public and withstand an onslaught from Republicans who are determined to portray it as a historic abuse of executive power.

The administration is not known for deft salesmanship of its policies, and that gives some Democrats the jitters.

They fear that the rollout of the immigration plan could be as shaky as the disastrous start last year to the implementation of the health care law. Republicans are eager to draw the parallel.

Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky repeatedly compared the Affordable Care Act to the immigration plan on Thursday. “Just as with Obamacare,” he said, “the action the president is proposing isn’t about solutions.”

Democrats believe the aggressive Republican message machine has overwhelmed the White House on a range of issues, including the threat posed by the Islamic State and the administration’s handling of Ebola cases in the United States.

So they will be watching anxiously as the president makes presents his immigration case in Nevada on Friday and elsewhere in the days ahead.

– Carl Hulse

Homeland Security Chief Heads to the Border to Rally His Troops

Jeh C. Johnson, the secretary of homeland security, is the man charged with carrying out most of President Obama’s executive actions on immigration. That is likely to be a tough task: His immigration agents have been known to oppose the kinds of changes that Mr. Obama wants to make.

In a letter to the department’s employees, Mr. Johnson pledged on Thursday to meet with them “in person, by video conference or otherwise” to explain the changes. He will travel to McAllen, Tex., on Friday as part of that sales job.

“I support and recommended to the president each of the reforms to the immigration system,” Mr. Johnson wrote. “In my own view, any significant change in policy requires the insight of those who administer the system. I believe we have done that here.”

He’ll find out if that’s true beginning on Friday, near the banks of the Rio Grande.

– Michael D. Shear

Republican Governors Didn’t Want to Discuss Immigration. Too Bad.

It was a fittingly indignant coda to a Republican conference overshadowed by a Democratic president.

Under an ornate brass chandelier, Haley Barbour, the folksy former governor of Mississippi, fulminated over the rude and unwelcome way in which the Obama administration’s immigration action had dominated the annual meeting in Boca Raton, Fla., this week of the Republican Governors Association.

It was, he said, “irksome.” Not to mention a “waste of our time.”

So it went for the chagrined Republicans, who found that reporters who were curious about immigration kept veering from the governors’ script: trumpeting a red-splashed electoral map that has given the party control of 31 statehouses.

Mr. Barbour wore the look of a man who had paid to see a blockbuster action film and had instead sat down to a depressing melodrama.

“We hold this conference to celebrate our governors and talk about the policies and performance that these governors have produced,” he said. “Anything that takes a lot of time away from that really is a waste of our time.”

It was a message repeated over and over during the three-day conference, firmly, but mostly politely.

Mr. Barbour, however, was not interested in courtesies.

“If you all want to talk about it,” he said of immigration, “go somewhere else.”

– Michael Barbaro

Republicans Consider Filibuster Rule Payback

On Thursday, Senate Republicans began addressing a big question as they prepare to assume control of the Senate: Will they reverse the Democratic rules that make it easier to break a filibuster on most White House nominees? Doing so now requires a simple majority.

At the party’s weekly private lunch, Senator Mitch McConnell set a Dec. 9 meeting for Republicans to weigh whether to restore the threshold to 60 votes.

Several Senate Republicans have argued it doesn’t make sense to go back to that requirement. But Mr. McConnell, who considers himself a guardian of Senate traditions, is thought to be eager to go back to the old ways to underscore how wrong the Democratic change was.

But his opinion might be changing. On Thursday, Mr. McConnell encouraged his colleagues to read a Wall Street Journal editorial arguing against a change back[http://online.wsj.com.proxy.bc.edu/articles/republicans-and-the-filibuster-1416442619?mod=wsj_review_&_outlook].

– Carl Hulse

What We’re Watching Today

President Obama heads to Las Vegas to talk about his immigration plan at Del Sol High School.

Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. is meeting with President Petro O. Poroshenko and Prime Minister Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk of Ukraine in Kiev before heading to Turkey for the next leg of his trip.

Speaker John A. Boehner will hold a 9:15 a.m. news conference to address how Republicans plan to respond to President Obama’s immigration overhaul.

Senator Mary L. Landrieu of Louisiana will campaign with her brother Mitch Landrieu, the mayor of New Orleans, ahead of her runoff election.

We Ask Christie: Would You Officiate a Gay Marriage?

Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey says that he has gay friends but that he opposes same-sex marriage. As gay marriage is legal in New Jersey, we asked the governor if he would ever officiate at one. He had a ready answer: “I can’t officiate weddings because I don’t have that authority as governor of New Jersey.”

If he could, would he?

“That’s so ridiculous, a hypothetical,” he snapped. “I would never answer that.”

Well, we can be stubborn, too. Many governors can officiate at weddings, we noted, so it is not that ridiculous of a hypothesis.

“I don’t know if many of them can or can’t,” Mr. Christie said. “But I can’t, so why would I answer that? I don’t want to.”

Wait, did he not want to officiate at a gay wedding, or answer the question?

“I don’t want to answer,” he said. “Why would I?”

– Mark Leibovich

Our Favorites From Today’s New York Times

President Obama is not the first president to use his executive powers to help undocumented immigrants, but he will help far more than any of his predecessors[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/21/us/politics/obamas-immigration-decision-has-precedents-but-may-set-a-new-one.html?hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&module=b-lede-package-region®ion=top-news&WT.nav=top-news], Julie Hirschfeld Davis says.

Senate Democrats got into a tense confrontation[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/21/us/politics/no-headway-is-made-on-cia-torture-report.html?ref=politics] with the White House chief of staff over censorship of the C.I.A. torture report, Mark Mazzetti and Carl Hulse report.

Our correspondent in Tehran, Thomas Erdbrink, details the drama in the Iranian capital[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/21/world/middleeast/iran-us-nuclear-talks.html?hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&module=first-column-region®ion=top-news&WT.nav=top-news] as the nation’s diplomats fly to Vienna to meet with Secretary of State John Kerry in a final push to reach a compromise on Iran’s nuclear program.

Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York vowed to end the culture of violence at Rikers Island[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/21/nyregion/rikers-needs-culture-change-mayor-de-blasio-says.html?hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&module=first-column-region®ion=top-news&WT.nav=top-news] that leaves inmates “more broken than when they came in,” according to Michael Winerip and Michael Schwirtz.

Record-breaking snowstorms often have political repercussions[http://www.chicagomag.com/Chicago-Magazine/The-312/February-2011/Snowpocalypse-Then-How-the-Blizzard-of-1979-Cost-the-Election-for-Michael-Bilandic/] (Mayor Michael A. Bilandic after the 1979 blizzard in Chicago, for example), and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York has led the state response in Buffalo[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/21/nyregion/snowstorm-western-new-york.html]. Video of the governor is here[http://www.nytimes.com/video/nyregion/100000003245245/cuomo-discusses-response-to-snowstorm.html].

What We’re Reading Elsewhere

Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin has his eye on launching a presidential campaign[http://www.politico.com/story/2014/11/scott-walker-2016-113050.html?hp=lc3_4] this summer, according to Politico.

Allysia Finley, in The Wall Street Journal, looks at why California Republicans failed to win any additional congressional seats[http://online.wsj.com.proxy.bc.edu/articles/political-diary-house-gops-california-washout-1416497965].

Writing in The American Prospect, Robert Kuttner says Democrats can win back the support of working-class whites[http://prospect.org/article/how-democrats-can-win-back-white-working-class-and-increase-turnout-among-blacks-and-latinos] and increase turnout among blacks and Hispanics.

Mississippi’s secretary of state is working with officials in neighboring states to schedule a Southern “superprimary” in 2016[http://www.clarionledger.com/story/news/2014/11/15/mississippi-pushing-southern-super-primary/19111379/], The Clarion-Ledger in Jackson reports.

The Utah Legislature is considering a plan that would allow firing squads for executions[http://www.sltrib.com/news/1846892-155/firing-execution-squad-utah-lethal-death], The Salt Lake Tribune says. (Utah was the last state to use a firing squad, in the execution of Gary Gilmore in 1977.)

Like this? Get First Draft delivered to your inbox[http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics/]

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141121eabl000xd


Op-Talk
Readers Respond: On a Republican South
By MARIE TESSIER
671 words
21 November 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
As Republican control and racially polarized politics have grown in the American South during the Obama presidency, so has the willingness of many Southerners to speak frankly about racial divisions in their comments to the Times.

The latest window opened on these voices of the South in response to Charles Blow’s Thursday column, “The Solid South Will Rise Again[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/20/opinion/charles-blow-the-solid-south-will-rise-again.html].”

“The Democrats wrote off the region long ago, and working class whites knew it,” Lars in Winder, Ga., wrote[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/20/opinion/charles-blow-the-solid-south-will-rise-again.html?comments#permid=13384748]. “Both whites and blacks in the South desperately need economic solutions to their problems; so far I haven’t heard many.”

In numerous states, Republicans control every congressional district with a white majority population, and the seats in the United States Senate as well, Mr. Blow wrote.

“This region has become so solidly Republican, particularly since President Obama was elected, that there isn’t much left there for the Democratic Party to defend or salvage,” Mr. Blow wrote.

Midterm election results in Louisiana are stark illustration. Senator Mary Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat who faces a runoff election in December, won just 18 percent support from white voters earlier this month, but 94 percent from black voters, Mr. Blow noted.

That racial dichotomy points to the inseparable nature of ideology and race in the South, Mr. Blow said. And readers from the region agreed, throwing in a mascot to round out the picture.

“A strange combination of conservative politics and Christian religion has become a regional white identity (along with being fans of the LSU Tigers),” wrote “a person” from Louisiana[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/20/opinion/charles-blow-the-solid-south-will-rise-again.html?comments#permid=13385661]. “Republicans have managed to integrate their ideas into the very character of white Southerners.”

Some readers explained they feel more alienated from Democrats than from Republicans, who also repel them.

“As a white Southerner I can’t help but feel that the Democratic Party hates me and views my values with contempt,” Jim C. wrote from Georgia[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/20/opinion/charles-blow-the-solid-south-will-rise-again.html?comments#permid=13384938]. “We vote Republican because they are the lesser evil, not because we want to be exploited by that pack of ignorant reactionaries.”

Republican campaigns playing on people’s fears stoke the disaffection, even as average voters suffer, some readers explained, using recent electioneering as example.

“In campaigns for re-election the G.O.P. mentions Obama’s name, Obamacare, ISIL, Ebola and illegal immigration as if they are the root of all the problems we face,” LVG wrote from Atlanta[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/20/opinion/charles-blow-the-solid-south-will-rise-again.html?comments#permid=13384888]. “Yet Georgia has the highest unemployment in the country. These folks get re-elected despite their failure to govern.”

Mr. Blow wrote, “This regional hyper-racialization of our politics has many origins, some historical and some current, but it does not bode well for the future of the country as a whole.”

Some readers responded angrily, saying black voters’ strong affiliation with the Democratic Party and ethnic divisions in Northern cities are equivalent characteristics to the increasing Republican majority in the South.

“Just because your values and party affiliation is one or the other doesn’t mean based on your choice of where you live means you are bigoted, ignorant or racists!” Macman007 wrote from Alabama[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/20/opinion/charles-blow-the-solid-south-will-rise-again.html?comments#permid=13384204]. “Better try and find a new boogeyman.”

Others said politics in the South will always have racial characteristics.

“As long as Democrats are perceived to be the party of black Americans, they will not make inroads until the deep-seated antipathy of whites toward blacks here ceases,” wrote Joseph in Phenix City, Ala.[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/20/opinion/charles-blow-the-solid-south-will-rise-again.html?comments#permid=13386759] “I don’t have any hopes it will be soon.”

The undeniable polarization is harmful to the country, Mr. Blow wrote. “We are self-sorting ourselves into hardened, impenetrable citadels of ideological sameness that harks back to the nation’s darker days,” he wrote.

Believing in a racially reconciled America is just progressive vanity, some Southerners said.

“The midterm elections have left us with the America that always has been,” Ken H. wrote from Athens, Ala.[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/20/opinion/charles-blow-the-solid-south-will-rise-again.html?comments#permid=13383853] “It is tainted with more racial, gender, ethnic, and religious discrimination than we like to admit.”

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141121eabl0038w


A
EBOLA SPREAD HAS SLOWED IN LIBERIA, C.D.C. SAYS
By HELENE COOPER
68 words
21 November 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
4
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports international response to West Africa's Ebola epidemic, along with more effective action by local communities, has stopped the exponential spread of the disease in Liberia, one of hardest-hit countries; warns that Ebola remains significant health crisis in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. Photo (M)

Photograph

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141122eabl0005g


World; Africa
Officials Sound Alarm About Potential Ebola Crisis in Mali
By RICK GLADSTONE and SOMINI SENGUPTA
875 words
22 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Leaders of the United Nations and the World Health Organization expressed renewed alarm on Friday about Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier]’s tenacity in Africa and in particular its potential to ravage a fourth country, Mali[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/mali/index.html], where they said hundreds of people had been exposed to an infected cleric[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/13/health/mali-reports-a-second-larger-ebola-outbreak.html] who died last month.

At a webcast news conference[http://live.worldbank.org.proxy.bc.edu/wbg-un-who-ebola-response] from the World Bank offices in Washington, the United Nations’ secretary general, Ban Ki-moon[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/b/ban_ki_moon/index.html?inline=nyt-per], and the W.H.O.'s director general, Dr. Margaret Chan, also appeared to reset their schedules for containing the Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html] virus, which has sickened at least 15,351 people and killed 5,459, according to a W.H.O. update[http://www.who.int.proxy.bc.edu/csr/disease/ebola/situation-reports/en/] posted earlier Friday.

Mr. Ban said nothing about the goal of safely burying 70 percent of the dead and treating 70 percent of the sick by Dec. 1, and instead expressed hope that the outbreak could be contained by the middle of next year.

Mr. Ban’s special envoy on the Ebola crisis, David Nabarro, also expressed doubts about achieving the Dec. 1 treatment goal in comments at the United Nations. “Confident? No,” he told reporters outside the Security Council, which was holding a meeting on the Ebola crisis.

While the effort to halt the virus has made progress, with strong indications[http://timespast.nytimes.com/plweb-cgi/fastweb?getdoc+nytview+pl201C+121442+3+wAAA+%28ebola%29AND%28not~%28web~or~tribune%29%3Aedt%29AND%2820131121%3C%3Dpdate%3C%3D20141221%29] that the worst-case outcomes might be avoided[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/21/world/africa/ebola-spread-has-slowed-in-liberia-cdc-says.html], the tone of the remarks by Mr. Ban and Dr. Chan was cautious.

“The international response is outpaced by this Ebola spread,” Mr. Ban said.

Warning against any complacency, Dr. Chan added, “We must not forget: Ebola is a formidable enemy.”

Most of the cases have been in the three most afflicted countries: Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone.

Yet the focus of the message of Mr. Ban and Dr. Chan was their concern about Mali[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/mali/index.html?inline=nyt-geo], a vast country where the government does not have full control and where a United Nations peacekeeping force is deployed. At least six people in Mali have died of Ebola.

A successful effort to halt Ebola infections in Mali last month, prompted by an infected 2-year-old from Guinea[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/25/world/africa/mali-reports-first-death-from-ebola.html], has now been overshadowed by a second and far more serious source of infection, from an imam from Guinea. He had been misdiagnosed with a kidney problem after traveling to Bamako, the capital, to seek treatment.

Dr. Chan said nearly 500 people in Mali and Guinea had come into contact with the imam, whose body had been returned home and been given a ritual Muslim funeral.

Mr. Ban said that a team led by Dr. Chan was headed to Mali and that a new support center would be established there.

Dr. Chan was blunt about the potential for a worsening in Mali.

“We are scaling up our action,” she told reporters. “We have to really move with speed and scale and have a no-regret policy. What does that mean? We must smother this little fire, little smoke, before it gets out of control.”

The W.H.O.'s own figures [http://www.who.int.proxy.bc.edu/csr/disease/ebola/situation-reports/en/?m=20141119]tell a worrying story about the broader progress in containing the virus. Only 26 percent of the necessary Ebola treatment centers were up and running this week, and barely a fraction of the smaller community care centers that health experts now say are more needed. Fewer than one-fourth of reported cases were isolated, with Sierra Leone reporting only 13 percent.

At the Security Council meeting on Friday afternoon, it became clear that two months after the world promised to rally to help the affected countries of West Africa, there remained significant shortfalls, even as diplomats said international aid had made a difference.

Thomas Mauget, an aid worker speaking by video link from Conakry, the capital of Guinea, raised the alarm about new hotspots emerging in the country, saying “international mobilization must be intensified.”

The Security Council, in a statement, nudged the United Nations Ebola response mission to more quickly expand its operations, hire more staff and deploy them where needed most.

In an example of the everyday risks confronting the effort to combat Ebola in West Africa, highway robbers in Guinea seized potentially dangerous blood samples suspected of containing the virus during a taxi holdup, news reports from the country said.

Health authorities in Guinea appealed to the robbers to surrender the samples, packed in a flask, which they had grabbed from a taxi passenger, a courier taking them to a laboratory for testing.

“We don’t understand why they stole the blood,” a spokesman for the Guinea Red Cross, Faya Etienne Tolno, was quoted by The Associated Press as saying. “Perhaps they thought there was cash hidden in the flask.”

In one bit of positive Ebola news, the W.H.O. reported the end of an unrelated outbreak first reported three months ago in the Democratic Republic of Congo, where the virus was first identified in 1976, when the country was known as Zaire.

In a statement[http://www.who.int.proxy.bc.edu/mediacentre/news/statements/2014/drc-ends-ebola/en/] on its website, the W.H.O. said 42 days, twice the incubation period, had passed without any new cases in the afflicted villages of Equateur Province, where 66 people had been sickened, so the country was now “considered free of Ebola transmission.”

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141121eabm004jz


Times Insider
Weekly Wrap
INSIDER STAFF
225 words
22 November 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
Hello Times Insiders,

Steve Eder had two front page stories this week about the N.F.L. and the way it does and doesn’t handle domestic abuse. He shares some of the victims’ stories in graphic detail.

What was the toughest part? “Keeping the process going with all three women, while not pushing too hard,” he said referring to the article’s subjects. “It was important to calibrate my outreach so that we’d stay in touch, but also not overwhelm them.” The most surprising? “One woman called the interviews ‘therapeutic.’ ” Mr. Eder shared insight [http://www.nytimes.com/times-insider/2014/11/21/tackling-the-story-of-domestic-abuse-and-the-n-f-l/]into a story that involved delicate questions and disturbing nuance.

Also, Lisa Foderaro described an unexpected encounter[http://www.nytimes.com/times-insider/2014/11/20/at-odds-in-the-citys-parks/] she had while reporting on the homeless in New York City’s parks. Times Book Critic Dwight Garner told[http://www.nytimes.com/times-insider/2014/11/14/book-reviewer-tell-all-dwight-garner-on-reading-reviewing-and-avoiding-blindness/?] all about reading, reviewing and avoiding blindness; if you missed it, have a look. It’s a fun, revealing read.

Check out Jeffrey Gettleman’s dispatch from Congo[http://www.nytimes.com/times-insider/2014/11/17/gorillas-are-more-fragile-than-you-think-a-dispatch-from-congo], Norimitsu Onishi’s behind-the-scenes look at how she reported a story about one family’s Ebola ordeal[http://www.nytimes.com/times-insider/2014/11/17/a-reporter-reveals-ebolas-effect-on-one-family/] and Natasha Singer’s look at an app teachers use[http://www.nytimes.com/times-insider/2014/11/19/teachers-new-pet-an-app-that-tracks-students] to track student performance.

Finally, Food section reporters and editors offered a collection of recipes[http://www.nytimes.com/times-insider/2014/11/21/insider-tips-thanksgiving-recipes/] they look forward to experimenting with this Thanksgiving. Give them a try.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141122eabm0005l


A
OFFICIALS REVISE GOALS ON CONTAINING EBOLA AFTER SIGNS OF WIDER EXPOSURE IN MALI
By RICK GLADSTONE
80 words
22 November 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
8
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and Dr Margaret Chan, director genearl of World Health Organization, express renewed alarm about Ebola's tenacity in Africa and focus on its potential to ravage Mali; while effort to halt virus has made progress, tone of remarks from both leaders is cautious in regard to whether or not worst-case outecomes might be avoided. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141126eabm00015


Book Review Desk; SECTBR
Best Sellers: Paperback Nonfiction: Sunday, November 23rd 2014
358 words
23 November 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
99
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the November 23, 2014 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending November 8, 2014. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (†) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers[http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers].

 Weeks
                              Best Sellers: Paperback Nonfiction

This On
Week List
  
1    15
UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House) An Olympic runner’s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II after his plane went down over the Pacific.

2 24
THE BOYS IN THE BOAT, by Daniel James Brown. (Penguin) A group of American rowers pursued gold at the 1936 Berlin Olympic Games.

3 85
WILD, by Cheryl Strayed. (Vintage) A woman’s account of the life-changing 1,100-mile solo hike she took along the Pacific Crest Trail in 1995.

4 2
GEORGE WASHINGTON'S SECRET SIX, by Brian Kilmeade and Don Yaeger. (Sentinel) The story of the Culper spy ring, which aided the American cause during the Revolution.

5 177
OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown) Why some people succeed — it has to do with luck and opportunities as well as talent.

6* 44
THE POWER OF HABIT, by Charles Duhigg. (Random House) An examination of the science behind habits, how we form them and break them.

7 4
NO EASY DAY, by Mark Owen with Kevin Maurer. (New American Library) A former member of the Navy SEALs recounts the mission that killed Osama bin Laden.

8 55
THE HOT ZONE, by Richard Preston. (Anchor) The discovery of the Ebola virus, and the efforts to keep it from spreading; first published in 1994.

9* 53
AMERICAN SNIPER, by Chris Kyle. (Harper/HarperCollins) A memoir about battlefield experiences in Iraq by the Navy SEALs sniper.

10 91
QUIET, by Susan Cain. (Broadway) Introverts — approximately one-third of the population — are undervalued in American society.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141124eabn0000w


Essay
Magazine
The Dark Side of Zootopia
By CHARLES SIEBERT
1512 words
23 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Correction Appended

It’s near closing time, but you’re safely ensconced within a mirrored glass bubble, wafting above the wilds of America. A pair of grizzlies, directly below, gaze up at their reflections on your ride’s mute and fleeting surface as the late-afternoon sunlight casts long shadows across the third and final themed continent of the day. Asia is already but a faint early-morning memory, a quick flight of steps down off the central plaza to the mouth of the nameless river that gently winds past padding tigers, bamboo panda cottages and the nearly touchable legs of wading elephants. Africa — after a quick cafe lunch back at the plaza — you chose to traverse by foot, allowing you the illusion of mingling with the lions, gorillas, zebras and treetop-grazing giraffes.

Zootopia, as it will be known, is still some five years from completion. A 300-acre reconfiguration of the Givskud Zoo in southern Denmark, it is among the latest visions of the Danish architectural wunderkind Bjarke Ingels, who is a crafter of low-sweeping, undulant structures that hew so closely to the contours of their natural surroundings that they at times appear subsumed by them. Eschewing the anthropocentric architecture of traditional zoos — the pagodalike pavilions of native Asian animal exhibits or the thatched jungle-lodge verandas of the African — Zootopia will secrete visitors in those airborne pods or in unseen quarters within the habitats: cratered lodges for viewing the savanna; subterranean bunkers and huts for watching the tigers or lions; cabins concealed by bamboo or stacks of lumber, allowing viewers to all but nuzzle up to pandas and grizzlies. The design enfolds the buildings and us humans into the landscape as a means of sparing the animals from our obtrusive gawking, if not fully freeing them.

The idea, despite all the fevered claims in the media about Zootopia being a “reinvention of the zoo,” is an old one, dating as far back as 1907, when the German entrepreneur Carl Hagenbeck opened Tierpark Hagenbeck in Hamburg. A series of moatbound, mixed-species recreations of the animals’ natural habitats, it’s among the earliest templates of modern zookeeping’s longstanding trend toward today’s nearly ubiquitous cage-free, 3-D dioramas. Indeed, the core impulse behind Zootopia — high-tech trappings aside — remains, paradoxically, the primal one behind all of civilization’s zoos.

People commonly think of the capture and exhibiting of wild animals as a source of educational entertainment. But there is, too, behind the kidnapping and keeping, a subliminal urge to stay close to representatives of a wilderness of which we were once part. Before the emergence of the earliest urban zoos of the late Enlightenment — Madrid’s, founded in 1775, or Paris’s Jardin des Plantes, established in 1795 around those animals in the Versailles menagerie that revolutionaries didn’t release or slaughter — this was an urge only the rich and powerful could satisfy. (Recent excavations at Hierakonpolis, Egypt, uncovered a menagerie from as far back as 3500 B.C.) At this stage in the history of human ark-building, however, the ongoing elimination of the wild and its inhabitants is eerily mirrored in the continued removal of their captive counterparts to our panoramic, lifelike renditions of their vanishing homes.

The very dynamic can now be observed in the wild. Some years ago, I was in the jungles of Uganda’s Queen Elizabeth National Park tracking the few remaining groups of elephants there and researching the increasing number of attacks they carried out on local villages as retaliation for the ongoing degradation of their habitat. I remember one early evening near the end of my two weeks, sitting on the veranda of my lodge, staring out across the wide Kazinga Channel, which connects Lake Edward to Lake George. I could see along the strait’s far shore, in the halo of some strategically placed arc lights, the glistening backs of wading hippos and Nile crocodiles, a group of water buffalo grazing nearby and, farther up the hillside, a few straggling pods of elephants, now fenced off and guarded in their own home — the remnants of years of war, poaching and continued human encroachment.

The scene was strangely reminiscent of the one I found myself viewing some 20 years ago during an impromptu visit to the Bronx Zoo. Like many zoos by the mid-1990s, the place had changed its name to the more progressive-sounding International Wildlife Conservation Park. At Astor Court, the original zoo’s central Neoclassical piazza, a number of the old Beaux-Arts animal houses had been renovated. Signs everywhere announced: “Animals are not home. Gone natural . . . living in wild habitats.” I decided to follow on foot the overhead Skyfari gondola cars and soon found myself gazing into the African Plains: a grassy expanse of tree-dotted savanna, with a moated central island of lazing lions staring across at the gazelles grazing all around them.

Twenty years later, in Uganda, it dawned on me that the wilderness had become the next tailored and tended diorama. And now with Zootopia, Ingels is merely devising a way of embedding us into the picture, of sequestering the spies from the espied, thus rendering us extras in our own wild stage play, with a pale frisson of danger: the threat of a sudden “Truman Show"-like rebellion from an animal actor, a grizzly, say, paw-swiping one of those passing bubbles, like salmon leaping above an Alaskan stream.

But whatever thrill is to be derived from staring at a captive tiger is quickly dispelled by the animal’s predicament. Awe gives way to abashment and then to a nearly inexpressible loneliness over being the only beast that does this to another. As such, any zoo, in whatever form, becomes not a demonstration of our prowess so much as a pathetically confused and protracted apology made to a series of wholly diminished and uninterested subjects.

“What distinguished man from animals,” the British poet, novelist and painter John Berger writes in his essay “Why Look at Animals,” “was the human capacity for symbolic thought, the capacity which was inseparable from the development of language.”

Discomfort and remorse over this severance from our fellow animals, the solitude of being the wielder of names, has informed human expression from the dawn of consciousness that caused it, from early creation myths through Adam and Eve to my favorite fable in Lewis Carroll’s “Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland.” Alice walks peacefully side by side with a fawn through the woods “where things have no names.” She forgets what to call herself, the animal beside her, the trees around them, until the two finally come to a clearing, where name recognition returns and the fawn hurries away in fright.

A paper in the Nov. 20, 2012, issue of the journal Current Biology, about an elephant named Koshik, held at a zoo in South Korea, suggests just how topsy-turvy things have become. Completely deprived for seven years of any of the complex, multitiered social interactions of wild elephants, Koshik, who is now 24, found a way to communicate with his only available company. Placing his trunk in his mouth, he uses his vocal tract to manipulate bursts of air into intelligible Korean. Scientists have thus far recorded a vocabulary of at least five words, translated as “hello,” “no,” “sit down,” “lie down” and “good.”

Ultimately Zootopia is not a reinvention of the zoo as much as a prefigurement of its inhabitants’ only possible future, at least on our relatively brief watch. That is, a wilderness with us lurking at its very heart, seated at open-air cafe tables, before we venture back out toward a dimly remembered past and steal our glimpses of it from discreet encampments designed to hide us not from the animals but from our own irrepressible need to spy on them. By the time its gates open circa 2020, Zootopia could well be one of the singular achievements of the anthropocene, a time when human representations of the wild threaten to become the wild’s reality.

Charles Siebert is a contributing writer. His most recent article was about animal personhood.

Correction: December 14, 2014, Sunday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Nov. 23 about the way zoos have changed misstated the official name that the Bronx Zoo was given in the early 1990s. It was the International Wildlife Conservation Park, not the Wildlife Conservation Society. (The Wildlife Conservation Society is the organization whose work includes running New York City’s four zoos and the New York Aquarium.)

* What an Uncensored Letter to M.L.K. Reveals[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/16/magazine/what-an-uncensored-letter-to-mlk-reveals.html]

* Treating Ebola Without Fear[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/09/magazine/treating-ebola-without-fear.html]

* Hooking Up at an Affirmative-Consent Campus? It’s Complicated[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/26/magazine/hooking-up-at-an-affirmative-consent-campus-its-complicated.html]

* Why Are Americans So Fascinated With Extreme Fitness?[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/19/magazine/why-are-americans-so-fascinated-with-extreme-fitness.html]

Illustration by Javier Jaén | Like many zoos around the world, the Bronx Zoo, seen in 1963, has replaced old enclosures with relatively free-range, natural-habitat environments. | The estate of Garry Winogrand, via Fraenkel Gallery

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141118eabn0028m


Magazine
Chris Christie Is Back
By MARK LEIBOVICH
7545 words
23 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Correction Appended

“If I fix this, you have to start the story with it,” Chris Christie told me, yanking the string of the venetian blind in the diner window. We were eating a late lunch at a place called Howley’s, next to a motor lodge on South Dixie Highway, in West Palm Beach. It was the last Sunday in October, nine days before the midterm elections, and the 4 p.m. twilight was beaming directly into the eyes of the governor of New Jersey. Christie’s communications director, Maria Comella, had already tried and failed to lower the blinds, inadvertently bunching them up even more. I had given it a shot, too. Finally, Christie rose and maneuvered himself across the booth to make his own attempt. Walking with a slight limp, which he occasionally does after sitting for a while, Christie grabbed the strings, one in each hand, tugged a few times and grunted. Then, after a final jerk, the blinds fell splendidly into place.

“There’s the lead of your story,” Christie said, letting out a high-pitched laugh and lifting his arms in triumph. The people sitting at a nearby table did double takes, but it was hard to tell if they recognized Christie or simply wondered why the big guy in the corner booth was raising his arms and giggling. (When Christie becomes excited, his voice achieves the tenor of Fred Flintstone shouting over Wilma’s vacuum.) Christie once again looked admiringly at the blinds. “There’s the lead,” he said.

The governor then sat back down to his nachos, which were dripping grease and piled prodigiously with three scoops of sour cream and guacamole over melted cheese. Diced tomatoes spilled onto the table. Christie, who has lost about 100 pounds since undergoing lap-band surgery last year, stopped drinking soda and rarely drinks alcohol, except for an occasional vodka “to take the edge off.” But he hasn’t relinquished some old delights. He surveyed the nachos and grabbed a large deck hewed together by coagulated Cheddar. “We don’t mess around,” he said, bringing the cluster to his lips. “I didn’t have breakfast today,” he added, as if by way of explanation. And then: “I had a little bit of ice cream around lunchtime.” When I asked if he felt better after his weight loss, Christie replied that he felt much the same physically but “much better psychologically.” He said he takes vitamins to stay healthy.

Christie was approaching the end of a breakneck weekend. On Friday night, a nurse who had treated Ebola patients in West Africa landed at Newark International Airport and was checked into a hospital after screeners said she had a fever, setting off a scare across the state. Christie, who mandated that she be quarantined, stayed up until 1 a.m. to learn of her diagnosis — she tested negative — before eventually dozing off at 3 a.m. He awoke two hours later to fly west to Lincoln, Neb., where he spent the morning at a football tailgate with the Republican gubernatorial candidate Pete Ricketts. He then made his third trip in a year to Iowa for a fund-raising event with Representative Steve King, at a pheasant lodge in Akron, before working his way east to Clive, a suburb of Des Moines, to attend the annual birthday dinner for Terry Branstad, the state’s longtime governor. Branstad was up double-digits in polls and in no danger of losing, but Christie insisted on being there anyway. “People ask me why I keep coming to Iowa,” Christie said in his speech, the standard rhetorical wink for a probable presidential candidate visiting the first-in-nation caucus state. The audience of Iowans, who have become used to such bits, laughed knowingly. He took off for Florida that night.

Christie ostensibly conducted this state-hopping tour in his role as head of the Republican Governors Association, a perch that has allowed him to spend much of the last year zipping around the country in a jet chartered by the governors association to support his party’s 35 gubernatorial candidates. He traveled incessantly for months, visiting nearly 20 states in October alone. On this Sunday in Florida, Christie had a few hours of down time amid six campaign events for Rick Scott, the state’s Republican governor. Christie requires little sleep (“five or six hours, I’m solid”), but he appeared to be dragging. His eyes were sunken and dehydrated; his cheeks were flushed. It reminded me of how the governor often looks after he has been “on” for long stretches: blowing out his cheeks, exhaling visibly and clenching whatever is nearby (the strap above the window of his Suburban, orangeade, a handful of nachos) like a security blanket.

The performative nature of Christie’s political style is exhausting. At his rallies for Scott, Christie would punctuate his remarks with a full-volume dismissal of Charlie Crist, Scott’s opponent, by thunderously declaring that his next job title would be “loser.” “How do you know when Charlie Crist is lying?” Christie said at a rally in Boca Raton. “His lips are moving.” He engaged in long-distance snippiness with Kaci Hickox, the Ebola-treating nurse, who was threatening to sue over her quarantine. “Whatever, get in line,” Christie said in response to a question about the suit. “I’ve been sued lots of times before.” He had begun the morning by appearing on Fox News Sunday with Chris Wallace, his first Sunday performance of the year.

Christie may have been exhausted, but he also conveyed an unmistakable air of satisfaction. In January, shortly after he cruised to re-election and was anointed the premature “early Republican front-runner” for 2016, his career appeared to combust in full view. Several of his top aides had ordered the closing of two on-ramp lanes to the George Washington Bridge in Fort Lee, creating a four-day traffic jam in apparent retaliation for the refusal of the town’s mayor, a Democrat, to endorse Christie. As a political scandal, “bridge-gate” — or “the bridge thing,” as Christie described it to me — had so much going for it: It featured pileups of innocent victims, pettiness, hubris, betrayal, revenge, smoking guns and a spectacularly deflated governor in the middle of it all. Christie denied any involvement, but the episode seemed to cement an image of him as a petty tyrant. Suddenly, his future seemed in doubt. The governor seemed diminished; friends and associates described him as depressed and disengaged; he barely slept. “I became less trusting,” he told me. At the same time, a number of damning newspaper and magazine profiles cataloged a history of cynical alliances and opportunism. Writing in The New Yorker, Ryan Lizza noted that Christie had made alliances with two influential New Jersey Democrats to ensure his comfortable re-election. One of them, he wrote, had been the subject on an investigation that Christie chose not to prosecute as the state’s United States attorney.

After months of uncertain footing, though, Christie had charted an artful comeback, largely through the cover of his perch as chairman of the governors association. With the midterms approaching, and many of the tightest gubernatorial races breaking his way, Christie seemed to have reached a point where he fully believed he would survive politically. Now he could resume the daily pleasures of being Chris Christie, nachos foremost among them. He recently declared that he would “rather die” than be in the United States Senate (“Could you imagine me banging around that chamber with 99 other people?”) and went on to describe in expansive detail the act of drowning himself in the Potomac River, a classic act of self-effacement masking self-regard and one that implicitly ignored how, months earlier, he was flirting with his own political suicide. When I asked Christie if this bit had been a little excessive, he shrugged me off. “Forget it,” he said. “I was having fun. I’m still allowed to have fun.”

A waiter visited our table to inquire about the status of the nachos. “Are you still munchin’ on that?” he asked. Christie nodded. There was work to be done. “I’m still munchin’ on it, baby,” the governor said. “It’s so good, I gotta keep munchin’.” The waiter headed off, and Christie pointed out the man’s array of tattoos, body piercings and blue baseball cap with a whorled design on the front. “That should be part of the story,” he said.

There are, in the public’s imagination, two competing notions of Chris Christie. In the first, he is a cravenly ambitious Everyman, a restless former lawyer and local officeholder who, through his law partner, became a major fund-raiser for George W. Bush and was named his campaign lawyer for New Jersey. This led to Christie’s appointment as United States attorney for the state, a post that, thanks to scores of high-profile cases involving corrupt politicians, propelled him to an unlikely victory over the incumbent governor, Jon Corzine, in 2009. In this vision of Christie, his love of the media spotlight is nearly Kardashianesque. Christie publicly flirted with a run for the White House in 2012; he didn’t mention Mitt Romney’s name until the 17th minute of his 24-minute keynote address at the Republican National Convention; weeks later, he infuriated his party by praising Barack Obama’s response to Hurricane Sandy.

In the other persona, Christie is a cartoonish bully and a classic embodiment of New Jersey’s brawny ethnic politics. The state’s best-known national politicians have tended to be sober cerebral people in the tradition of Bill Bradley, Tom Kean and even Woodrow Wilson, but Christie seems to better resemble his state’s pop-culture powder kegs instead: that is, the Tony Sopranos, the Snookis and the Cake Bosses. In this vision of his character, Christie is an oversize figure of little substance, one whom Richard Ford recently referred to as the “candied-yam of a governor.”

In person, Christie defies both of these caricatures. Obscured by the ambition, loose-cannon personality and, frankly, the girth, is the fact that he is an exceptionally gifted and nuanced politician. He has a preternatural talent for appearing blunt and insistent when he is being cute and obfuscating. He is also a savvy tactician. If Barack Obama were not a politician, you could imagine him being a law professor; Mitt Romney would be in business. If Christie were not a politician, he would be perfectly exhilarated to work as a political operative.

Christie approached this story with the same shrewdness he brings to political life. A few months after “the bridge thing,” I emailed Comella, asking to spend time with the governor for a profile. It was a Hail Mary query (Christie had mostly stopped sitting for print interviews), but I was surprised when I was invited to lunch, in June, at the governor’s office in Trenton. Our lunch — cold cuts, sliced tomatoes and potato chips — was off the record, but I can divulge that it was typical of the subtext-free knowingness of how politics often works behind the scenes, even when the news media are involved. We knew what the other was doing and were both very open about it. I was trying to work Christie in hopes of getting a story; Christie was sizing me up, too. He knew that there was little, if any, upside in participating in a magazine profile at such a vulnerable moment. Even though the bridge scandal had receded, it still hung over the governor’s every move. New findings, revelations and even indictments could drop at any time. Despite all that, he was clearly intrigued.

Christie seems very much to enjoy dances like this. He speaks in the clipped shorthand of the campaign managers, lobbyists and political pros who operate in state and national capitals. There is a cynical expression you hear around Washington, especially in lobbying circles, that someone “gets the joke”: They know the purpose of every situation and they know the angles, they know what people are doing and trying to do and they know how to do all this without looking as if they’re doing it. At that first meeting, Christie did not agree to be interviewed, but neither did he seem displeased when I suggested that I would be following him around through the summer and fall. Christie absolutely gets the joke.

By then, the outlines of his comeback campaign were already beginning to take shape. It would involve a regiment of “safe” and purposeful appearances, both at home and across the country. First, he would take hyperlocal visits across New Jersey: town-hall meetings, groundbreaking photo-ops and ceremonies to commemorate small-bore initiatives like boating safety. These visits would give him a chance to show that he cared about nontraditional Republican issues, like bail reform and drug rehab, in lieu of jail time, for addicts. He would follow up these performances with a heavy schedule of Republican Governors Association events where he could bank good will and cultivate donors while pounding away at easy targets, like Obama, Democratic opponents and the liberal-media vultures who, he believed, piled on after the bridge revelations. The genius of the tour was that it allowed Christie to work in the service of his colleagues and his party while first and foremost advancing himself.

Christie’s plan was also calculated toward an even deeper, strategic purpose. Republicans have in recent elections nominated “establishment” candidates (Romney, McCain, Bushes 43 and 41), who make an implicit deal that they will portray themselves as “severely conservative,” as Romney once called himself, in the primaries before eventually tacking back to the center in the summer. And while Christie’s anti-abortion, anti-gay-marriage and anti-tax stances make him conservative for New Jersey, he is certainly a moderate by the standards of evangelical conservatives, rural populists and gun activists who vote heavily in Republican primaries, especially in early states like Iowa and South Carolina. (Christie switched his position on abortion rights in 1996; he dropped his legal challenge to a court ruling that allowed same sex marriage in New Jersey last year.) Christie’s nonstop traveling would bring him into contact with party leaders of a much more conservative stripe. The more chits Christie could collect with these conservative character witnesses — bonus points if they had “governor” in their titles — the better his chances in a hypothetical primary.

A few weeks after our lunch, I watched Christie preside over a town meeting in Caldwell, N.J., a suburb of New York City. (The fictional Soprano family resided in North Caldwell.) Town meetings were the sites of several YouTube-ready encounters that built the mystique of his first term. The Caldwell town meeting, Christie’s 123rd as governor, was held in a room with lousy acoustics and filled with about 400 people who showed up to hear Christie talk about “hard truths.” As he often does on the stump, Christie warned that if New Jersey did not reform spending, entitlements and taxes, the state would wind up like Detroit. “All you have to do is look to your west for an example of what’s in store,” Christie said.

After only a few minutes, a procession of individual protesters began making themselves known at synchronized intervals. This afforded Christie the chance to do what he does best: think on his feet and give the illusion of a simple, noble warrior, taking on all comers. Unlike news conferences and interviews, town meetings are typically pro-Christie crowds, and he can expect that his supporters will gang up on any interrogators. When a pink-haired woman read off a rant about education cuts, Christie immediately pounced. “If this is really so heartfelt, then why are you reading the talking points off the iPhone?” Christie taunted. New Jersey, he said at one point, unrelated to anything, is a place that has “a little chip on its shoulder.” A few moments later, he berated a sign-holding teacher from Newark who was shouting at him as she walked to the exit. “Show some respect,” he said. The protester responded, “I’ll respect you if you respect me,” and Christie’s face filled with a grin. He told me afterward, “We put on a good show for you, didn’t we?” The next day he was off to the Jersey Shore to talk about boat safety.

“Hey, great hat,” Christie said as he saw me standing by the glass door in MJ’s Restaurant in Marion, Iowa. Christie was referring to my orange Steve DeBerg-era Tampa Bay Buccaneers cap that I bought a few years ago at an airport for no particular reason. Politicians often deploy one go-to icebreaker for every person they recognize: things like “How’s your mother doing?” (if they had met her before) or “Love your tie!” (Bill Clinton is always complimenting ties). “How’s the doctor?” is the first thing Harry Reid asks when he sees me, referring to my wife, whom he met a long time ago and learned was a doctor. (He has no idea what her name is.) Christie went for my Bucs cap.

This trip to Iowa was his first open foray in months to an early primary or caucus state. It also coincided with the world’s exploding. That day, a Malaysia Airlines plane was apparently shot down over Ukraine, and Israel began an invasion of Gaza. Behind the counter at MJ’s, CNN was playing a split screen of both stories. Instead of going near these subjects, however, Christie was eager to tell everyone how he felt about Branstad: “a role model for me,” “a dear friend,” a “legend” and “what public service is all about.”

Christie’s roadshow was becoming treacherous. New Jersey suffered its sixth credit downgrade during his tenure, and he remained unable to fix the state’s pension plan. Atlantic City was dying in plain sight. Yet Christie was frequently out of the state, tending to his governors’ races or partaking in many of the celebrity events that grass-roots Republicans tend to deride, like the Bloomberg-Vanity Fair party after the White House Correspondents Dinner and the Allen & Company conference in Sun Valley, Idaho. Weeks after citing an apocalyptic vision of Detroit in Caldwell, Christie flew to Michigan and praised Gov. Rick Snyder for exemplifying “what leadership can do” for a big city. On international topics, he proved particularly ill adept, relying on broad criticisms of Obama’s inability to be “respected” by Vladimir Putin and his own support for Israel. Christie was forced to apologize to Sheldon Adelson, the billionaire Republican donor, in Las Vegas after referring to the West Bank as “occupied territories,” a term Adelson recoils from. Michael Barbaro, a reporter at The Times, quoted attendees panning Christie’s presentation at a confidential meeting of Republican donors and activists in Georgia last March. According to the article, Christie’s performance was “disturbingly heavy on swagger and light on substance.” One source said his response to a question about Putin was “uncomfortable to watch.”

Christie was particularly hard to pin down on immigration, one of the more divisive topics within the G.O.P. Earlier this year, he signed a New Jersey version of the so-called Dream Act, which ensured in-state tuition rates for the children of undocumented immigrants. Presumably, this would place him as a moderate within his party. But when he was asked about the subject on numerous occasions over the summer, he ducked and covered. “I’m not going to discuss a complicated issue like immigration here in Marion, Iowa,” Christie said in the restaurant parking lot, employing a favorite tactic of name-dropping a random locale as a way to avoid talking about something important. (In New Hampshire, he shrugged off questions about ISIS by declaring, “I’m up in New Hampshire to talk about Walt Havenstein and why he’d be a great candidate for New Hampshire.”) “The country deserves a more deep and thoughtful conversation,” Christie said.

This was the backdrop of Christie’s imperfectly timed “trade mission” to Mexico in early September. The trip was intended to signal the expansion of his policy repertoire and show that this famously undisciplined figure could behave in a diplomatic setting. Christie’s movements and events were heavily stage-managed. Before a photo-op lunch with the United States ambassador to Mexico, Earl Anthony Wayne, a Christie advance man gave the assembled diplomats detailed directions on protocol, where to stand and when to greet the governor. (“You think we’ve done that before?” Wayne joked to a colleague. She replied, “Once or twice.”) There was a media “war room” at the Presidente Hotel. Someone had designed a fancy logo for the occasion, melding the Mexican and New Jersey flags. Christie told the traveling press corps that he would be doing “a great deal of listening” on the trip, employing a related tactic of telling people what he is doing whether or not he is actually doing it. When I asked Christie why he always felt the need to tell people he was listening rather than simply listening, he said: “Because that’s who I am. Like, if I am doing something, unless I am really trying to be covert about it, I am going to tell you what I’m doing.”

Christie performed his statesman duties without incident, although he often looked bored and distracted while doing his listening. During a ceremony to mark a new partnership at the country’s Education Ministry (like all partnerships, this one was “historic”), Christie fiddled with his translation headphones, whispered to the person sitting next to him and at one point literally twiddled his thumbs. As children performed a heartfelt re-enactment of Mexico’s history, Christie whispered into the ear of his new best friend, the governor of Puebla. During one conference breakfast, Christie punctuated an otherwise throwaway point with the ominous line, “This is the business we have chosen.”

I immediately recalled it as a quote from “The Godfather II,” when Hyman Roth offers his chilling assessment about turning the other cheek as his friend was murdered by his business partner. Christie cribs liberally from the “Godfather” trilogy, and the original Brando version is his favorite movie. And while many politicians love the “Godfather” movies, including Barack Obama, their Old World codes seem to reflect Christie’s approach to politics: his demand for total loyalty, his concern for respect, his love of the chess match and his long, exceptional memory. After the “bridge thing” broke, Christie told me, there were people who disappointed him. He has not spoken to his former deputy chief of staff, Bridget Kelly, and campaign manager, Bill Stepien, since he fired them after their involvement became known. Christie remembers who piled on, who was silent and who “surprised” him. “It was “educational,” he said.

He used to be a regular on “Morning Joe,” the MSNBC morning show, and was pals with the co-hosts, Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski. But after bridge-gate, it became a feeding frenzy. “There’s an agenda at the network level at MSNBC,” Christie told me. “All these folks have to march in line in order to keep their jobs.” I asked Christie if he thought Scarborough and Brzezinski were taking orders from corporate bosses. “I don’t know,” he said. “But it seems to me there is a completely different approach to me than they were approaching me in the past.” (When I asked Scarborough if this was true, he said: “We saw him at the Vanity Fair-Bloomberg party last spring, and he stormed right past us. Mika and I just looked at each other and laughed. It’s a question of temperament with him.”) Yet Christie did not seem entirely displeased with this turn of events, either. Haley Barbour, the former governor of Mississippi and former chairman of the Republican National Committee, said, “A lot of people who vote in our primaries think that if MSNBC attacks you for a month, you must be better than I thought you were.”

Christie also remembers those who were loyal. “When you’re in that position, whether it’s me or anybody else, you remember who was willing to stand up and defend you,” Christie said. “Not because they knew every fact, because they didn’t. Nobody did, myself included.” Mitt Romney stood by him, he said. “And Giuliani, in a very big way,” he added. “John McCain, Haley Barbour, they all went out publicly and did it.” Christie held up another finger with the mention of each name, keeping score.

A few hours after the breakfast, Christie headed to a taqueria in the center of Mexico City and parked himself under a Corona awning on the sidewalk. What followed was a lengthy session with reporters in which he evaded persistent questions about immigration. The political calculus was obvious. There was no upside to taking on such a contentious issue now and no real consequence for waiting. Still, it was awkward. “I know that you guys want me to focus on immigration, but I am not going to,” he said. One reporter asked when he might. “If and when I become a candidate for president of the United States,” he said. “Until that time, I have no role in the immigration debate except for how it may affect the citizens of New Jersey.” Then he walked inside the taqueria and went on an unprompted riff about being Chris Christie. “I have more than one club in my bag,” he announced, referring to his political skill set. “Everyone fixates on the quality that is most entertaining.” He did this while eating a plate of beef tacos. On the way out, he told me once again how much he missed my Buccaneers hat.

Later that afternoon, Christie was sprawled on a couch in a holding room at the JW Marriott Hotel, with his white dress shirt coming untucked. His son Andrew was with him for a few days before starting his junior year at Princeton. “He’s got the old-style Tampa Bay Bucs hat,” he said to Andrew, by way of introducing me. “Orange.” I asked Christie about the soliloquy he went into at the taqueria. He had complained, somewhat plaintively, to the assembled media that they covered him in a one-dimensional way. He could be an ambassador, he suggested, a listener, a negotiator, whatever. “Most people who have written about me have gone for the obvious,” Christie told me. “People have this image of me that I’m just flailing away all the time. The governor-wrecking-ball kind of thing.”

In speeches, especially during his first term, Christie used to say you could treat bullies in one of two ways. “You can either sidle up to them, or you can punch them in the face,” he said. “I like to punch them in the face.” But there was always the question of how long Christie could fashion himself the guy who punched bullies in the face without becoming the bully himself. When I asked Mitt Romney about Christie, he generally spoke kindly but warned that the trademark tirades that Christie built his national following on can lose their novelty. They can be new and exciting at first, Romney said, but after bridge-gate, they might come off more like bullying.

In the course of following Christie around, his staff was always pointing me to a more conciliatory side. They sent a video of Christie meeting with a group of recovering addicts, highlighted his work with traditional Democratic organizations like the N.A.A.C.P. and his collaboration on prison-reform efforts with Jim McGreevey, the former Democratic governor of New Jersey who resigned in 2004 after admitting an affair with a male lover. (McGreevey’s resignation occurred as Christie, then the state’s United States attorney, was investigating his office.)

But the most natural evidence was the way Christie behaved with his family. In our discussion, he appeared most animated on the topic of his boyhood and parenting. During the Mexico trip, I was often struck by how attentive the governor was to his oldest son, making sure he did not feel lost in the crowds that trailed him. After events, he often walked beside him, holding him at his side with his arm. A few days earlier, Christie dropped off his oldest daughter, Sarah, for her freshman year at Notre Dame. He promised her he would not cry and managed to hold it in until the plane ride home. “I wrote her this five- or six-page letter about the things I wanted to say to her but couldn’t because I knew I would cry,” he told me.

For all of Christie’s showy machismo, he often cites strong women as the formative influences of his life. His grandmother, a Roosevelt Democrat who was born on a boat from Sicily, introduced him to politics. He spent weekends at “Nanny’s” apartment in West Orange watching “Meet the Press” and going to church. “I think because the women in my life have been the predominant influence, that it makes me that much more comfortable with my own emotions,” he told me. “I think, in general, women are better at that.” He mentioned the experience of starting at the University of Delaware after learning that his mother, Sondra, found out she had breast cancer and required immediate surgery. “I sat there by myself for two days, thinking about not only the separation anxiety of going to school but also worrying about my mother,” Christie told me. “I had to teach myself how to move on from that because I had classes to start and friends to make. It was one of the most difficult periods of my life, but it taught me very much that you have to move on. It didn’t teach me how to do it, but it taught me that you had to do it.”

Christie talks a great deal about his mother, who died in 2004 and who he says preached the importance of respect, of loyalty and of a love based on a full airing of grievance. “There is nothing left unsaid between us,” Christie, the oldest of three children, recounted her telling him as she lay dying of cancer. He recounts the deathbed story as an explanation for his blunt style. “There was open regular warfare between my parents,” Christie told me. As the oldest, he was often called upon to step in and calm things down. I wondered for a second if these battles ever became physical. He shook his head. “It was two very passionate people who loved an argument,” he said. “That’s the atmosphere that I grew up with.” I asked him if it led him to appreciate an argument or dread it. “Both,” he said.

This environment made him extremely adept at arguing, he told me. “My wife said to me all the time, ‘The worst part of being married to you is arguing with you.’ ” I then tried to pick an argument with Christie on immigration. “We’re not talking about it,” he said, shutting me down. How could he expect to avoid it, I asked him, given that we were in Mexico? “I know it’s there,” he said. “I’m just not talking about it except as it relates to New Jersey.”

“So,” I asked, “if an undocumented immigrant in New Jersey wanted a path to citizenship, would you support it?”

“Fabulous try,” he said, exhaling a deep, disdainful laugh.

On an unusually warm Saturday night last month, Christie walked into a large event hall outside Des Moines to celebrate Governor Branstad’s birthday. Young volunteers handed out fake mustaches in honor of Branstad’s distinct Inspector Clouseau-style tuft. Branstad, whose actual birthday was a month away, held court at a front table.

Christie, who was scheduled to deliver the keynote speech that evening, began table-hopping through a crowd of selfie-obsessed rubbernecks. On the continuum of politicians who meet-and-greet as if it’s a chore (Barack Obama) and those who savor the experience (Joe Biden), Christie falls toward the latter. When he’s working big rooms, Christie swings his whole arm during handshakes. He’s a close talker and attentive to eye contact, and in certain moments, he seems wholly unable to conceal his wonder at the environments to which he has access. One top aide to Obama suggested to me that Christie’s excitement might have been at work in the days after Hurricane Sandy, when Christie hosted the president in New Jersey. (He was overheard saying how amazed his parents would be if they saw him flying on Marine One.) During our time together, Christie told me, twice, that he met Gisele Bündchen, the supermodel wife of Tom Brady, the N.F.L. quarterback. He told me in October that Rex Ryan, the head coach of the New York Jets, came over the previous weekend to watch the Notre Dame football game. Even in less august settings, Christie clearly loves the attention. “Hey, my cousin is from Toms River,” one woman yelled out while he was posing for a photo between two blondes in Branstad mustaches. Christie flashed a grin before introducing himself to an Iowa state senator who handed him a business card. Christie held the small piece of paper in his hand as if it were a rare gem, studying it conspicuously, before locking eyes with Senator Charles Schneider of West Des Moines and heartily saying, “Thank you for this.”

As with his earlier trips to Iowa, Christie’s speech was a paean to Branstad. “When Terry Branstad asks you to come to Iowa, you do not say no,” Christie said. “So if you’re not tired of seeing me after tonight, I’m going to be back here next Thursday.” The crowd laughed, but Christie wasn’t kidding. He had volunteered to help Branstad win Lee County, one of only two counties he has never won among the state’s 99. It had become a bit of an obsession for Branstad, and Christie was more than happy to indulge him. “That’d be 98 counties for me,” Branstad told me. Christie had parked himself a few feet away from Branstad and was trying to wrap his arm around a much shorter woman while holding her cellphone aloft for an overhead selfie. Christie grinned, snapped the photo and punctuated this encounter with a hug, absorbing her into his bosom.

The next day in Florida, after a few more campaign stops and nearly 90 minutes of eating nachos, Christie was in an expansive mood. I started throwing out random questions, partly for fun but also because Christie sees rapid-fire give-and-take, especially on topics that interest him, as a kind of media sport. If he could rename all the rest areas on the New Jersey Turnpike, would he name one for himself? “No.” (But “yes” to Bruce Springsteen, Jon Bon Jovi, Whitney Houston, Woodrow Wilson and James Gandolfini.) Would Molly Pitcher, hero of the Battle of Monmouth, get to keep her rest area? “Maybe.” Vince Lombardi, even though his only connection to the state was a brief stint as a high-school coach? “Yes, just because it’s cool,” he said. “Plus, he was buried there.”

“So was Jimmy Hoffa,” I said, offering the inevitable joke.

“Yes, but we haven’t found him yet,” Christie said. “As soon as we do, he’ll get a rest area.”

I changed subjects and asked Christie whether he thought his smash-mouth New Jersey personality might translate to the genial environs of the political heartland. “Oh, I am the wine that won’t travel?” he asked sarcastically, shaking his head. “I don’t buy that theory one bit.” He paused and escalated into the Fred Flintstone voice: “So if I am the wine that won’t travel, then why am I traveling? Why are they always asking me to come? Why am I so successful raising money for them?”

Christie’s comeback campaign had been a success. Besides retaking the Senate and expanding their lead in the House of Representatives, Republicans expanded their control of State Houses from 29 to 31. Christie traveled to 37 states, 19 alone in the last five days, and raised $102 million for Republican candidates, an experience he likened to “giving birth to 30 babies at once,” but one he also clearly relished. (Branstad ended up carrying Lee County by 972 votes.) The morning after the elections, Christie embarked on a victory lap, hitting five morning shows, with the exclusion of “Morning Joe,” on two hours of sleep. On “Today,” Matt Lauer referred to an event earlier that week, in Belmar, N.J., in which Christie berated a heckler to “sit-down and shut up.” There were now a new spate of questions about Christie’s temperament. Christie tends to treat these questions with contempt and occasionally spins his outbursts as proof that he possesses that most coveted political skill: authenticity. It is his attempt, as David Foster Wallace once wrote of John McCain, to act “somewhat in the ballpark of the way a real human being would act.” Lauer asked if Christie would have to learn to control that side of his personality if he ran for president. “First of all, you’re assuming I wasn’t controlled,” Christie said. “I’m not going to change, Matt. This is who I am.”

There is a theory in presidential politics that electorates will gravitate to the candidate who represents the biggest departure from the incumbent, especially if they have grown weary of that incumbent. “That’s the argument people make to me about why I should run,” Christie told me during one of our conversations. “They’re like: ‘No one could be more the opposite of Barack Obama from a personality standpoint than you. Therefore, you’re perfect.’ ” Yet one of the more compelling aspects of a Christie candidacy would be his ability to start an overdue fight within his own party. In 2012, Mitt Romney never took on the G.O.P.'s far right, which has more than its own fair share of bullies. He was content to run right in the primaries, tout his “severe conservative” stripes and hope it would not end up costing him with swing voters in the general election. (It did.) In a brief period of reckoning after the 2012 election, Republican leaders spoke of their need to expand their shrinking base and appeal to Hispanics, African-Americans, women and younger voters rather than bow to unrelenting hard-liners. Christie could be the candidate with the best shot of pulling this off. “Christie’s strength is that people think he is being straight with them,” said Tom Kean, a former New Jersey governor and one of Christie’s political mentors. “If he kowtows to anyone, and people stop believing that he’s saying what he means, he’s going to kill the brand.”

Kean told me that Christie “is the best politician I’ve seen since Bill Clinton.” Barbour said he “has a strong starting place in 2016.” But for all of the noise he has made, there is a difference between being an operative and being a national politician. Christie’s positions on immigration reform, foreign policy and certain social issues remain very much a black hole, not to mention an object of great suspicion, on the right. Running in a Republican presidential-primary campaign would be considerably harder than showering cash on his fellow governors and being dubbed by the media as a “winner” of this cycle. On some level, Christie might be just the latest intriguing moderate for the small media-obsessed wing of the Republican Party that gave us Presidents Giuliani and Huntsman.

Bridge-gate, though it has subsided, may yet produce new revelations. When I asked, Christie stood by his original response that he had no involvement with the lane closures. But interviews from the participants, along with developments in the current federal investigation, could at the very least create enduring doubts. And many who have seen Christie’s management style up close attest to the fact that he is exceedingly hands-on. “He’s a guy who does like to know everything,” Kean said, speaking generally of Christie’s style. “Of all the governors I’ve worked with, Christie probably wants to have more knowledge of the important things that are going on under him than anyone. He’s not a governor who appoints people and lets them do their job. He likes to be involved.”

On the day Christie and I met in Florida, Jeb Bush’s son George P. Bush told ABC’s “This Week” that his father was seriously considering a run, the latest in a series of noises from the Bush family about Jeb’s intentions. I asked Christie if Bush, the former governor of Florida, would have any impact on his own plans. He told me that he would not make a decision based on what someone else does or by trying to forecast what the political landscape might look like in a year. “You never make those decisions based on politics,” he said. But he was clearly “thinking about it,” as he has told everyone who asked, and will decide in early 2015.

Christie told me he was still working through the question of whether he was ready. I asked how someone even makes a decision like this. At that point, Christie’s face lit up. He did what he does so well, stepping outside himself and admiring, again, the experience of being Chris Christie. He told me the story of how a few weeks earlier he was walking his 14-year-old son Patrick out to the driveway before he left for school. In the midst of saying goodbye, Patrick told his father that he had been thinking about something. His father asked him what it was. Patrick said he had been thinking about how his father had a really, really big decision to make. “And you know what’s cool about that?” Patrick said. “It’s the biggest decision anyone would have to make.”

In recounting this story about his wide-eyed son, Christie became even wider-eyed. He had again reached the top of the hypothetical media-political world, the one filled with speculation, strategy and self-aggrandizement. Christie, it occurred to me, had spent much of the last year hopscotching the country and making scores of important new friends on behalf of the Republican Governors Association. The year before, he ran for re-election, and the year before that he spent much of his time campaigning for Romney and publicly resisting calls that he run for president himself. If he decides to run in 2016, Christie could spend the next two years again playing himself in the center of the political action while the grind of governing New Jersey remains an afterthought. Perhaps the biggest reason not to run is that victory would almost assuredly deprive him of that joy; legislating, world events, listening and all those other things would get in the way.

After finishing his story, Christie paused and returned to the nachos. He seemed to have already made this calculation. “Am I willing to put up with what might happen if I win?” he asked. He put three nachos stuck together with melted cheese into his mouth. “Losing isn’t the problem,” he said. “Winning is the problem.”

Mark Leibovich is the magazine’s chief national correspondent and the author of “Citizens of the Green Room.”

Correction: December 7, 2014, Sunday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Nov. 23 about Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey misidentifed the location and the time frame of a presentation he made at a confidential meeting of Republican donors and activists. He spoke in Georgia last March, not in New York City last summer. The article also described incorrectly the governor’s actions regarding a bill to legalize same-sex marriage in his state. The governor vetoed the bill in 2012; he did not fail to halt its passage last year. (In 2013 Christie dropped his legal challenge to a court ruling that allowed same sex marriage in New Jersey.)

* What Is Chris Christie Doing in Iowa? [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/03/magazine/what-is-chris-christie-doing-in-iowa.html]

* Chris Christie Coasts to 2nd Term as Governor of New Jersey [http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/06/nyregion/chris-christie-re-elected-governor-of-new-jersey.html]

* Subdued Chris Christie Still Finds Center Stage [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/01/us/politics/subdued-chris-christie-still-finds-center-stage.html]

* ‘Very Sad’ Chris Christie Extends Apology in Bridge Scandal [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/10/nyregion/christie-controversy-bridge-lane-closings.html]

Christie, bottom center, in Iowa, at Gov. Terry Branstad's birthday fund-raiser in October. | Tobias Hutzler for The New York Times | Chris Christie arriving at the home of a family in Little Ferry, N.J., whose house was rebuilt after Hurricane Sandy, on the second anniversary of the storm. | Tobias Hutzler for The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141120eabn002e5


Arts and Leisure Desk; SECTAR
Up Next, a Classic Who Loves Old Films
By DAN BARRY
2267 words
23 November 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
1
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Out on the sidewalks of the Flatiron district, a Manhattan without melodrama shuffles along. But just inside a building on East 23rd Street, a white-haired man dressed to kill aims his baby blues right where you live, and utters the password to your grand escape.

''Hi,'' he says. ''I'm Robert Osborne.''

He says it again and again and again, smiling congenially at the camera that dangles over a warm set designed to evoke his living room. Hi, I'm Robert Osborne. Hi, I'm Robert Osborne. Hi, I'm Robert Osborne.

Say hi to Mr. Osborne, the marquee host for the Turner Classic Movies channel, who is filming introductions for movies to be shown well into December. As always, the films are organized by themes so beguiling that you sit down to watch ''North by Northwest,'' and the next thing you know, weeks have passed, and your family has left you -- so you might as well finish watching ''Bringing Up Baby.'' Again.

Mr. Osborne has been the Merlin casting this spell since TCM's very first broadcast 20 years ago. He is a one-of-a-kind cinematic savant, cramming delectable tidbits into brief intros and outros, dissecting films with guests and conducting intimate interviews with stars of a certain age. But he is 82, though he hardly looks it, and the channel's executives would prefer to change the subject -- Hey, December is Cary Grant month! -- than discuss a post-Osborne era, so completely does the man personify the TCM brand.

That brand, available in more than 82 million homes, has achieved cultlike popularity. The annual TCM Film Festival in Hollywood sells out quickly, as does a yearly cruise on which nearly 2,000 fans watch movies, discuss movies and try to summon the nerve to talk to movie stars like Shirley Jones. There are even a few TCM tattoos, which might jibe with a 2012 study of the brand: 60 percent of viewers were between 25 and 54, and not a bunch of retirees reminiscing about Buck Rogers serials and lost Shirley Temple dolls.

The TCM alchemy mixes entertainment, audience engagement -- and escape. Some days, the world is too much with us: ISIS, Ebola, the broken sump in the cellar. Some days, you'd rather be in a ship's cabin with the Marx Brothers, Allan Jones, a cleaning lady, two maids, a manicurist, an engineer and his assistant, four waiters -- and a woman asking, ''Is my Aunt Minnie in here?''

''I get stopped on the street all the time,'' Mr. Osborne later recalled after a lunch at the New York Athletic Club, which received him with superstar deference. ''People say: 'You got me through cancer last year. You got me past unemployment. You take me away from my troubles.' Exactly what movies did in the '30s and '40s.''

But TCM has had its own troubles, having recently endured buyouts and layoffs imposed by its parent company, Turner Broadcasting, which is part of Time Warner. Still, TCM's senior vice president for programming, Charlie Tabesh, said the channel would continue to broadcast movies uncut and commercial free. As movie channels like AMC turn more to original programming, he said, TCM will do occasional programming of its own, but remain ''true to its core values.''

Those values, he said, are personified by the dapper Mr. Osborne, wearing custom suits made by Guffey's of Atlanta, as he shares his formidable film expertise with an affable charm, free of condescension.

The celluloid stew he is serving this morning, to be portioned out over several weeks, includes Janet Leigh, fantasy cinema, Spencer Tracy, two films featuring Burt Lancaster and Deborah Kerr, Ingmar Bergman and -- in a typically nice TCM touch -- the great but mostly forgotten character actress Beulah Bondi.

''Her one great regret was not getting to play the role of Ma Joad in John Ford's 'The Grapes of Wrath,' the part which went on to win Jane Darwell an Oscar,'' Mr. Osborne says to the camera. ''Up next! We have Beulah Bondi in a charming movie titled 'One Foot in Heaven.' ''

The hint of wistful intimacy in this brief discussion -- just one of dozens this day, and one of thousands over the years -- is what makes Mr. Osborne irreplaceable. He actually knew Darwell, along with so many others from Hollywood's golden age. Just a week or so ago, he was chatting with his dear friend Olivia.

That would be Olivia de Havilland, now 98, who made her screen debut in ''A Midsummer Night's Dream.''

In 1935.

Mr. Osborne can pinpoint the moment that charted his life's course: It was 1941, he was 9, and his mother had just bought him a Modern Screen magazine featuring Lana Turner on the cover and, inside, an advertisement for ''Kiss the Boys Goodbye,'' in which Mary Martin's lips were impossibly red in an otherwise black-and-white layout. An obsession was born.

Before long, this son of rural Colfax, Wash., was scouring decades-old copies of The New York Times to record -- in a book he still owns -- the particulars of every first-run movie, down to the theater it opened in and the length of its run.

Mr. Osborne studied journalism at the University of Washington and served in the Air Force in Seattle, pursuing acting all the while. Serendipity struck in the late 1950s, when he appeared in a regional theater production with Darwell, who invited the handsome young actor to live in her guesthouse, outside Hollywood.

He eventually joined the acting stable of Lucille Ball's Desilu Productions, where she took a maternal liking to him, in part because he knew the work of character actors like Eric Blore and Donald Meek. She invited him to dinner parties and nightclubs, and introduced him to people he knew only from movies and Modern Screen.

One night he found himself dining with Ball, Kay Thompson and Joseph Cotten, among others, and began to think, ''Never in my wildest dreams did I ...?''

But then he stopped himself. ''Don't try to kid yourself, Osborne,'' he remembers thinking. ''You always knew that you'd be in movie stars' houses, knowing them, being friends with them.''

His own acting career was an unfulfilling loop of commercial bits and small television parts in which he often played a suit with a briefcase whose lines merely advanced the plot. At Ball's urging, he gave up acting to write, and published his first book, a history of the Oscars, in 1965.

Hollywood then was a nostalgia-free zone, populated with former stars not yet prepared to accept the shadows just beyond the spotlight.

''They were cut off like people on a desert island,'' said Mr. Osborne, who retains an affable courtliness off camera. ''Paulette Goddard, I got to know. Hedy Lamarr, I got to know really well. Nobody gave a damn about Hedy Lamarr back then.''

Nobody except Mr. Osborne, whose knowledgeable appreciation for their careers endeared him to them. ''Somebody like Dorothy Lamour,'' he said, ''she adored me. I knew she had sold more war bonds during the Second World War than almost anybody in Hollywood.''

Bette Davis (!), Lana Turner (!), Ingrid Bergman (!) -- they all became good friends. Still, he said, he never forgot the agony on Lamarr's exquisite face when a strutting Frank Sinatra failed to recognize her, or hearing that the vivacious Turner had stopped going out, after a restaurant hostess snubbed her to accommodate a Loni Anderson entourage.

Mr. Osborne worked for many years as a columnist for The Hollywood Reporter, but it wasn't the best fit; he knew, for example, that Rock Hudson had AIDS but did not break the story, he said, because the actor ''didn't want it known.''

But that job, along with appearances on his friend Dinah Shore's show and other television gigs, led to an offer as the prime-time host of a new cable channel showcasing Turner Broadcasting's extensive film library. So, in 1994, began: ''Hi, I'm Robert Osborne.''

Since then, TCM has explored A for Astaire, Z for Zanuck, and everything in between: child stars, gangster films, spaghetti westerns, African-Americans in Hollywood, British new wave, Akira Kurosawa, and the seminal work of the Bowery Boys. It has retained the movie-wise Ben Mankiewicz, a descendant of Hollywood royalty, as a regular presence, and featured a succession of guest hosts.

But Mr. Osborne remains the paterfamilias of film, respectful of other viewpoints but no pushover. If Drew Barrymore, a guest host on Mr. Osborne's recurring ''Essentials'' feature, picks ''I Love You, Alice B. Toklas'' as an essential film, he will gently disagree. If Alec Baldwin celebrates the ''Mutiny on the Bounty'' of 1962, with Brando, he will indicate his preference for the '35 version, with Gable.

At times, his interviews with movie legends -- Betty Hutton, Kim Novak, Mickey Rooney -- are so revealing as to approximate therapy sessions, although Robert Mitchum, ill with emphysema, provided little more than grunts. ''He was being a scamp,'' the charitable Mr. Osborne said.

Eva Marie Saint, 90, has been interviewed many times about her career, which includes an Oscar-winning performance in ''On the Waterfront'' and a femme fatale turn in ''North by Northwest.'' But she said that Mr. Osborne surpasses other interviewers because he creates a ''safe place,'' in which even personal details become valuable context rather than gossip.

''You look into those beautiful blue eyes and you know that nothing can go wrong,'' Ms. Saint said. ''He's one of us, but he also knows a lot more than any of us.''

''There's only one Robert Osborne,'' she added. ''I'm sure, as we speak, they're worrying about that.''

TCM had worries in 2011, when Mr. Osborne took a four-month leave of absence. It was as if your favorite priest or bartender -- the one who got you through a tough time -- had disappeared. His absence was more unnerving than Dame May Whitty's disappearance in ''The Lady Vanishes.''

Mr. Osborne, who is single, said that he simply needed a restorative timeout from his taxing schedule, which included incessant flights to Atlanta to film his segments at the Turner headquarters. To accommodate him, TCM built the 23rd Street set, allowing him to commute from his apartment in a Midtown building called, of course, the Osborne.

He expressed gratitude for TCM's reassurances during his last contract negotiation, and said he planned to work ''as long as I have health, and as long as I think I look O.K. on camera.'' He added, ''If I really couldn't do it with enthusiasm, that would be the time to quit.''

Mr. Osborne knows his good fortune. He is paid well and widely loved for doing what he would be doing no matter what: watching, researching and talking about movies. That wistful trace in his voice comes from a regret that TCM did not arrive soon enough for so many actors to know how their work has endured.

''When I knew Barbara Stanwyck, she was dead in the water, and she knew it,'' he said of the great actress, who died in 1990. ''My God, I wish she was still around.''

Back in that faux living room, the taping continues. Two umbrellas rest in a stand. A gray suitcase sits in the corner. A black-and-white aerial photograph of Colfax hangs on the wall.

Mr. Osborne tells the senior producer Gary Freedman that he needs to reshoot a segment on the 1958 movie ''Separate Tables'' because he failed to mention that two of its stars, David Niven and Wendy Hiller, had won Academy Awards for it. Such details are as familiar to him as air. He is intimately involved in the research, writing and editing of every script.

Other movies follow: ''Northwest Passage.'' ''Touch of Evil.'' ''Psycho.'' ''Topper.'' ''House of Wax.'' ''The Naked Spur.''

Hi, I'm Robert Osborne.

When the shoot ends, Mr. Osborne steps out into the real world, where yet another stranger or two might stop to thank him for helping them forget their cancer, their unemployment, their grief, even if only for as long as a Fred-and-Ginger duet.

He returns, finally, to the Osborne, where he maintains three apartments on separate floors. One is his office, where Veronica Lake peeks down through her blond bang from a ''Sullivan's Travels'' poster. Another is for the storage of his extensive collection of movie ephemera.

And the last is for Robert Osborne to live in as just Bob Osborne, with almost no Hollywood remnant on display. It provides escape from escape, and a quiet place for those weekly telephone chats to talk about everything and nothing with his friend Olivia.

Robert Osborne, host of Turner Classic Movies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR1); The Turner Classic Movies host Robert Osborne works in a New York studio, top, and helps sell out an annual film festival, second row, and movie cruise, above left, interviewing former stars like Eva Marie Saint, center, and Tippi Hedren. His friends include Olivia de Havilland, center, whose film debut was in 1935 with Mickey Rooney in ''A Midsummer Night's Dream,'' above right. Mr. Osborne even has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES; EDWARD M. PIO RODA/TURNER ENTERTAINMENT NETWORKS; WILL BYINGTON/TURNER ENTERTAINMENT NETWORKS; FRED PROUSER/REUTERS; EVERETT COLLECTION; VINCE BUCCI/GETTY IMAGES) (AR14)

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141123eabn0008s


N.Y. / Region
Notable Absence of New Ebola Quarantines at New York Area Airports
By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS
1170 words
24 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
A day after a doctor who had returned from Guinea[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/guinea/index.html?inline=nyt-geo] about a week earlier became New York’s first Ebola case[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/24/nyregion/craig-spencer-is-tested-for-ebola-virus-at-bellevue-hospital-in-new-york-city.html], the governors of New York and New Jersey announced that they would begin quarantining travelers who had been in contact with Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] patients in West Africa.

The move, which went beyond federal policy, drew protests[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/27/nyregion/ebola-quarantine.html] from medical aid groups and the Obama administration, who said it would penalize people who were trying to contain Ebola and discourage others from doing so.

But since Kaci Hickox[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/26/nyregion/nurse-in-newark-tests-negative-for-ebola.html], a nurse, flew into Newark’s airport on Oct. 24 and was kept at a hospital for three days, no one else has been caught up in the quarantine dragnet at the New York and New Jersey airports.

The absence of quarantines is striking, not only because both governors emphatically defended the policy as a necessary precaution, but also because most people returning from Ebola-stricken countries arrive in the United States through John F. Kennedy and Newark Liberty International Airports. Several aid organizations have American health care workers in West Africa, a handful of whom return every week. But New York and New Jersey officials say no one coming through the two airports since Ms. Hickox has reported direct contact with Ebola patients.

“I don’t think we can speculate on whether or not it’s out of the ordinary,” Monica Mahaffey, a spokeswoman for the New York State Health Department, said.

Possible explanations, based on interviews with several doctors who served in West Africa and the organizations they worked with, are that health care workers are delaying their returns to the United States, or they are deliberately avoiding the two airports if they have been exposed to Ebola patients in the 21 days before arrival, which could subject them to quarantine.

A New York-based doctor with AmeriCares[http://www.americares.org/] said that he and some colleagues were planning to spend three weeks in Europe after their tours, to avoid coming home to a quarantine in the United States.

Doctors Without Borders[http://www.doctorswithoutborders.org/] workers have sometimes done the same thing, Tim Shenk, a spokesman, said.

The federal government, which requires the monitoring of some returning workers but not a quarantine, has been asking airlines to route travelers returning from Guinea, Sierra Leone[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/sierraleone/index.html?inline=nyt-geo], Liberia[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/liberia/index.html?inline=nyt-geo] and, beginning last week, Mali[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/mali/index.html?inline=nyt-geo], through one of five airports: Kennedy, Newark, Washington Dulles International, O’Hare International in Chicago, and Hartsfield-Jackson International in Atlanta.

Doctors and organizations said that some aid workers have been carefully considering which of those airports would be most advantageous to enter through, and that many believe Dulles to be a better option, because the quarantine policy in Virginia, where Dulles is, is less stringent than in New York and New Jersey.

“It’s been an ongoing discussion with each health worker — where do you need to return, when do you want to return, and what’s the best way to get you where you need to be,” said Margaret Aguirre, head of global initiatives for International Medical Corps[https://internationalmedicalcorps.org/].

Doctors Without Borders, the organization that Dr. Spencer and Ms. Hickox worked with, has had five medical workers return since late October — all through Dulles, Mr. Shenk said. But Mr. Shenk said the organization was not avoiding the airports in New York and New Jersey in cases where workers actually lived the state.

Despite the perception that Dulles is easier to pass through than Kennedy or Newark, the decision to quarantine eventually depends on the state or county where the traveler is heading. Two doctors with International Medical Corps, for example, have been under some version of quarantine in California, and one doctor with SIM USA [http://www.simusa.org/]has been quarantined in Mecklenburg County, N.C.

And Mr. Shenk said that all five medical workers returning through Dulles had ultimately faced some type of quarantine, such as not being allowed within three feet of others when in public, in their home states or counties, though they were not completely confined to their homes.

Another six nonmedical workers for Doctors Without Borders have returned since late October, two of them through Kennedy, Mr. Shenk said. Their health is being monitored by local authorities.

Bruce Johnson, president of SIM USA, a Christian missionary group that has sent many aid workers to West Africa, said none of his group’s health workers had returned to New York or New Jersey because they did not live there. But he said that the patchwork of quarantine rules from state to state and county to county was so problematic that aid organizations had argued for more consistency at a recent White House meeting on Ebola with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.

“There is a consideration that some states are more restrictive than others,” he said. “In this fight against Ebola, it would probably serve the public’s interest and the individual’s interest to have a more standardized approach across all states.”

Some health care workers specifically mentioned the case of Ms. Hickox, who complained of being mistreated at the airport and of being needlessly hospitalized, as a reason to avoid Newark in particular.

Dr. Hernando Garzon, a doctor who spent six weeks in Sierra Leone with International Medical Corps, returned on Nov. 9 through Kennedy Airport. His full-time job is in emergency medicine at Kaiser Permanente in California, but he knew his employer would not allow him to return until the 21-day risk period had passed, so he decided to spend that time at his second home, in New York City.

After what happened to Ms. Hickox, “Kennedy was a better option than Newark for certain,” he said.

But he answered no to questions about contact with Ebola patients, because he had been doing administrative work.

He is being monitored by the New York City health department and is required to take his temperature twice a day, but he is free to move about, and even visited his daughter in Vermont.

Dr. Garzon noted that some of his colleagues have been placed in some form of quarantine elsewhere in the country. But though their movements have been restricted, they have been allowed to do things like go to the grocery store and walk their dogs.

“Nobody except for the nurse who was held in New Jersey has really been held against their will,” he said. “I think that if a lot of these people were stuck in a hospital tent in Newark or near J.F.K., you’d be finding people contesting it a lot more. But in reality, people have managed to get themselves into situations that they can accept.”

* Officials Revise Goals on Containing Ebola After Signs of Wider Exposure in Mali [http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/22/world/africa/mali-ebola-epidemic-who.html]

* Ebola Spread Has Slowed in Liberia, C.D.C. Says[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/21/world/africa/ebola-spread-has-slowed-in-liberia-cdc-says.html]

* Woman Who Died in Brooklyn Tests Negative for Ebola[http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/20/nyregion/ebola-test-is-negative-on-woman-who-died-in-new-york.html]

Dr. Hernando Garzon, shown in Manhattan on Friday, returned from Sierra Leone this month. | Michael Appleton for The New York Times

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141124eabo000gr


A
NOTABLE ABSENCE OF NEW EBOLA QUARANTINES AT NEW YORK AREA AIRPORTS
83 words
24 November 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
21
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Quarantine mandated by governors of New York and New Jersey on people returning at area airports from West Africa who had been in contact with Ebola patients has been enforced in only one case; absence of quarantines is striking, and possible explanation is that health care workers are either delaying their returns to United States or deliberately avoiding New York area airports, notably Kennedy and Newark Liberty International. Photo (M)

Photograph

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141125eabo0006l


U.S.
Hagel Submits Resignation as Defense Chief Under Pressure
By HELENE COOPER
996 words
25 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
WASHINGTON — Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/h/chuck_hagel/index.html?inline=nyt-per] handed in his resignation on Monday, the first cabinet-level casualty of the collapse of President Obama[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/o/barack_obama/index.html?inline=nyt-per]’s Democratic majority in the Senate and the struggles of his national security team to respond to an onslaught of global crises.

Administration officials said that Mr. Obama made the decision to remove Mr. Hagel, the sole Republican on his national security team, last Friday after a series of meetings between the two men over the past two weeks.

The officials characterized the decision as a recognition that the threat from the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria will require different skills from those that Mr. Hagel, who often struggled to articulate a clear viewpoint and was widely viewed as a passive defense secretary, was brought in to employ.

Mr. Hagel, a Republican and a combat veteran who was skeptical about the Iraq War, came in to manage the Afghanistan combat withdrawal and the shrinking Pentagon budget in the era of budget sequestrations.

Now, however, the American military is back on a war footing, although it is a modified one. Some 3,000 American troops are being deployed in Iraq to help the Iraqi military fight the Sunni militants of the Islamic State, even as the administration struggles to come up with, and articulate, a coherent strategy to defeat the group in both Iraq and Syria.

“The next couple of years will demand a different kind of focus,” one administration official said, speaking on grounds of anonymity. He insisted that Mr. Hagel was not fired, saying that he initiated discussions about his future two weeks ago with the president, and that the two men mutually agreed that it was time for him to leave.

But Mr. Hagel’s aides had maintained in recent weeks that he expected to serve the full four years as defense secretary. His removal appears to be an effort by the White House to show that it is sensitive to critics who have pointed to stumbles in the government’s early response to several national security issues, including the Ebola crisis and the threat posed by the Islamic State.

Even before the announcement of Mr. Hagel’s removal, Obama officials were speculating on his possible replacement. At the top of the list are Michèle A. Flournoy, a former under secretary of defense; Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island and a former officer with the Army’s 82nd Airborne; and Ashton B. Carter, a former deputy secretary of defense.

A respected former senator who struck a friendship with Mr. Obama when they were both critics of the Iraq war from positions on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Mr. Hagel has nonetheless had trouble penetrating the tight team of former campaign aides and advisers who form Mr. Obama’s closely knit set of loyalists. Senior administration officials have characterized him as quiet during cabinet meetings; Mr. Hagel’s defenders said that he waited until he was alone with the president before sharing his views, the better to avoid leaks.

Whatever the case, Mr. Hagel struggled to fit in with Mr. Obama’s close circle and was viewed as never gaining traction in the administration after a bruising confirmation fight among his old Senate colleagues, during which he was criticized for seeming tentative in his responses to sharp questions.

He never really shed that pall after arriving at the Pentagon, and in the past few months he has largely ceded the stage to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, who officials said initially won the confidence of Mr. Obama with his recommendation of military action against the Islamic State.

In Mr. Hagel’s less than two years on the job, his detractors said he struggled to inspire confidence at the Pentagon in the manner of his predecessors, especially Robert M. Gates. But several of Mr. Obama’s top advisers over the past few months have also acknowledged privately that the president did not want another high-profile defense secretary in the mold of Mr. Gates, who went on to write a memoir of his years with Mr. Obama in which he sharply criticized the president. Mr. Hagel, they said, in many ways was exactly the kind of defense secretary whom the president, after battling the military during his first term, wanted.

Mr. Hagel, for his part, spent his time on the job largely carrying out Mr. Obama’s stated wishes on matters like bringing back American troops from Afghanistan and trimming the Pentagon budget, with little pushback. He did manage to inspire loyalty among enlisted soldiers and often seemed at his most confident when talking to troops or sharing wartime experiences as a Vietnam veteran.

But Mr. Hagel has often had problems articulating his thoughts — or administration policy — in an effective manner, and has sometimes left reporters struggling to describe what he has said in news conferences. In his side-by-side appearances with both General Dempsey and Secretary of State John Kerry, Mr. Hagel, a decorated Vietnam veteran and the first former enlisted combat soldier to be defense secretary, has often been upstaged.

He raised the ire of the White House in August as the administration was ramping up its strategy to fight the Islamic State, directly contradicting the president, who months before had likened the Sunni militant group to a junior varsity basketball squad. Mr. Hagel, facing reporters in his now-familiar role next to General Dempsey, called the Islamic State an “imminent threat to every interest we have,” adding, “This is beyond anything that we’ve seen.” White House officials later said they viewed those comments as unhelpful, although the administration still appears to be struggling to define just how large is the threat posed by the Islamic State.

Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel's resignation was expected to be announced by President Obama on Monday. | Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141124eabp002mh


Lens
Multimedia
Getting to the Feeling Behind the Photos
By ASHLEY GILBERTSON
951 words
25 November 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
Joseph Sexton sent me one of his classic emails in May. “Liberia, june X-Y, You available?”

ProPublica[http://www.propublica.org] — where Mr. Sexton is a senior editor — was doing a huge story about Firestone, the American tire company that controls one of the world’s largest rubber plantations outside of Monrovia. Twenty-five years ago, the company worked with Charles Taylor, the now-convicted war criminal, in a decision that risked putting corporate profit before humanitarian concerns.

The project included a 90-minute television documentary by Frontline, the PBS investigative series,[https://www.propublica.org/article/firestone-and-the-warlord-intro] and a 21,000 word story by T. Christian Miller and Jonathan Jones. My job was to find some of the people who had made a deal with Firestone, or were affected by the company’s actions, and to tell the story’s human side.

I wanted to be fair to the protagonists, both the individuals and Firestone. Liberia is a country rife with conflict, and Liberia’s greatest resources are also its greatest curse — rubber, diamonds, gold and oil among them. The companies, most prominently Firestone, that tap these resources provide opportunities for everyday Liberians but, various parties say, also exploit their work force.

The characters I found highlighted this dilemma. Firestone provided a good life in some regards, including a salary, education and free health care. But the workers also complained the company provided substandard housing, turned a blind eye to child labor and abandoned them in moments of bloody crisis in the early years of Liberia’s long civil war.

The challenge was that all of this had taken place in the past. In making these narratives, which I co-directed with my friend, and director of photography on the Frontline special, Timothy Grucza, we looked for impressionistic methods in filmmaking that imbued people’s stories with palpable emotion: Mary’s heartbreaking tales of multiple rapes and murder at the hands of rebel and government soldiers was represented by the visuals and sound of a coming storm. The tension in her voice as she discussed sexual abuse was mirrored by her hands during one particularly intense moment while she cooked.

This approach gave an emotional dimension to their stories over a timeline of archival images of events. It’s a more nuanced type of journalism than I’m used to, but one I enjoy the most, since I prefer giving a sense of how a place feels over how it looks.

The dignity with which Mary carried herself, and her drive as a human being, was overwhelming. She wakes up every day and works to help provide for her daughters and granddaughters. She has had a tough life, she told me, and she is in pain. She doesn’t want her family to feel the way she does.

The fishermen whose livelihoods depend on the Farmington River, which they claimed was polluted by the Firestone plantation, embodied Liberian resilience. I’d heard rumors of the greatest fisherman in Owens Grove, a man called Handsome Boy, and I set out to meet him. But upon arriving at Owens Grove, a humble community on the river’s banks, I learned he’d died a couple of months earlier.

I asked: Who’s the best fisherman now? That’s how I met Joseph Brown, whose father had worked for Firestone, but whose dream had always been to become the best fisherman in Owens Grove. He had respect for the opportunities provided by Firestone and loved that his father had been lucky enough to work there. It’s a good living, he said. But he believed pollution had decimated the fish population and almost ruined his trade.

For all of his experience and deep sense of pride, he didn’t want his children to follow in his footsteps: not enough fish.

Unfortunately, the reporting team was pulled out of Liberia as the Ebola threat became more severe, which prevented me from finding a third subject or photographing the plantation. The prospect of doing my project without taking photos on the plantation itself forced me to be creative.

We found our third subject, who grew up on the plantation and tapped rubber as a young boy, living in Staten Island. Working from New York posed different challenges. Little Liberia, as the Park Hill neighborhood of Staten Island is called, is known for gang violence. The community is also tightly knit, and not exactly receptive to press, which was already coming out to do stories about Ebola. I’d ask people about their time on the plantation and they would decline. “That happened a long time ago,” they told me.

Luckily, a community leader introduced me to Sam Bindi, who had escaped the civil war and had been accepted as a refugee into the United States. His children saw themselves as American, but Sam wanted to go home one day and try to help his country recover and grow. He had received his bachelor’s degree in criminology and was now studying for his masters.

The three pieces we compiled as a team aim to provide a sense of the internal conflict faced by Liberians. A sense of place and a sense of the struggles they face everyday, but also of their desires to provide for a better future for their children. It’s a universal human trait, and for all of the difficulties in Liberia in the past and present, a sentiment that’s beautifully expressed across the country and among her diaspora in Staten Island.

View the Frontline/ProPublica documentary film, “Firestone and the Warlord[http://www.pbs.org/frontline/firestone-and-the-warlord/].”

Follow @AshGilbertson[https://twitter.com/AshGilbertson] and @nytimesphoto[https://twitter.com/#!/nytimesphoto] on Twitter. Lens is also on Facebook[http://www.facebook.com/nytimesphoto].

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141125eabp000p1


The Scan
Science
Science Events: Minimalist Music and a Spotlight on Sex
By JASCHA HOFFMAN
693 words
25 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Correction Appended

Events this coming month at the intersection of science and culture.

MUSEUM

The Institute of Sexology. Wellcome Collection, London. Through September 2015. Free.

Human sexual behavior, along with the scientists who track and interpret it, is the focus of this yearlong show[http://www.wellcomecollection.org/exhibitions/institute-sexology] at London’s museum of medicine and art. It features sex machines like those used in the laboratory of William Masters and Virginia Johnson, to help them measure heart rate, brain activity and other vital signs in the moments leading to climax — and a metal-lined box that the psychoanalyst Wilhelm Reich believed would amplify libidinous energy. After the expected tributes to Sigmund Freud and Alfred Kinsey and their respective quests to expose the kinkiness hidden in polite society, a final section praises a public survey that has tracked British sexual habits for decades. For those who worry that such data might be a little dry, the curators have dug into the archives of the museum’s founder, and will offer samples from his erotica collection.

Tools and Beautiful Users. Cooper-Hewitt Smithsonian Design Museum, 2 East 91st Street, Manhattan. Opens Dec. 12. $18 (seniors $12; children free).

As it reopens after a three-year renovation, the Cooper-Hewitt[http://www.cooperhewitt.org/] shows off the wild variety of technologies that we use to shape the world around us. At the entrance to an exhibit on tools, the visitor faces an imposing swarm of hand implements, with hundreds of handles beckoning inward; inside there are Eskimo snow goggles and a Paleolithic hand ax — as well as tiny flying robots that can help pollinate flowers, among scores of objects gleaned from the Smithsonian’s vast reserves. Another exhibit starts with postwar telephones and thermostats designed with ergonomics in mind, then examines the current wave of do-it-yourself design, from Roomba vacuum cleaners fitted with surveillance cameras to print-your-own prosthetics.

MUSIC

Entertaining Science. Cornelia Street Cafe. 29 Cornelia Street, Manhattan. Dec. 7 at 6 p.m. $10.

At the previous installment of this monthly salon, a biologist dressed as Elvis Presley shared the stage with an artist doing live macramé. This month promises a more sober salon, as an auditory scientist plans to help the audience to make the most of some very minimal music[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tXLef81Xgg]. Nima Mesgarani, a neuroscientist at Columbia, will explain ingenious experiments in which he used brains scans to reconstruct the sounds heard by ferrets and humans. Then he will try to prepare the audience for an auditory challenge: listening to the extended compositions of Phill Niblock, the octogenarian pioneer of minimalism, who will be joined by an avant-garde bagpiper. The composer “can use pure sine tones, but you may hear additional pitches and movement that aren’t being played,” said the neuroscientist Dave Sulzer, who organized the event. “Some are illusions that happen because of physics, and some are hallucinations that happen in the ear and brain.”

TALK

Empiricist League #13: Apocalypse. Union Hall, 702 Union Street,Brooklyn. Tuesday, Nov. 25, at 8 p.m. Advance tickets, $8; $10 at the door.

While previous installments of this Brooklyn series celebrating “the power of the scientific method” have explored themes like love and creativity, Tuesday night’s program dwells on the darker side[http://www.empiricistleague.com/2014/10/29/november-25th-2014-apocalypse/]. The filmmaker Andrew Blackwell will report on his journeys to “the world’s most degraded, despoiled and ruined environments” in a kind of adventure travel he calls “pollution tourism.” The journalist Joshua A. Krisch[http://www.joshkrisch.com/], an occasional contributor to Science Times, will talk about the potential to produce vaccines — for Ebola, among other diseases — using genetically modified tobacco plants. And to round out the evening, Special Agent Sara Wood will explain the F.B.I.'s efforts to work with amateur biohackers to prevent biological terrorism.

Correction: November 27, 2014, Thursday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An entry on Tuesday in a listing of coming events about the intersection of science and culture misstated the date for a program at the Cornelia Street Cafe. It is on Dec. 7, not Dec. 5.

Harvard School of Engineering

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141124eabp004ee


news
Guinea’s president takes the Ebola crisis personally
By ADAM NOSSITER
1413 words
26 November 2014
International New York Times
INHT
6
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The phone rang. It was the president. ‘‘The ambulances? Yes, excellency, we need at least 15 to cover our needs,’’ the nation’s harried Ebola czar answered.

But the president of Guinea, Alpha Condé, was just getting started, calling back a few minutes later. ‘‘Yes excellency, to transport the samples we need good vehicles,’’ the Ebola czar answered patiently. Then Mr. Condé wanted to know about new Ebola treatment centers, and the new Ebola database on cellphones. And how about those experimental tests, or the car for the chief of staff?

‘‘I’ll send you the information right away,’’ answered the Ebola czar, Sakoba Keita, cradling his head in his hands. A rueful smile played on the doctor’s lips. It was 5:30 in the afternoon and the day was far from over. The president called back 10 minutes later with more questions.

Guinea has been through 50 years of autocracy, military coups, massacres of civilians and plundering by its rulers. Now the aging political outsider elected to govern this nation — who spent much of his adult life in exile in Paris — is mustering a late-career tenacity to confront the deadly epidemic that still infects hundreds in this battered West African nation.

The change of heart has been sharp. At the start of the outbreak, Mr. Condé was incredulous, denying its seriousness and wasting crucial weeks that could have helped contain it.

Predicting ‘‘rapid and final success’’ in late March, he said the ‘‘situation is well under control’’ only a month later, even as health officials under him massaged the numbers to avoid scaring off much-needed investors in his impoverished nation, a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention official said.

‘‘They are very much annoyed by Ebola, because of the investors,’’ a different senior international health official — with Doctors Without Borders — said here in early July. ‘‘The government’s first concern was not to scare outsiders. They wanted to minimize the cases.’’

Upset by the group’s dire warnings, Mr. Condé publicly criticized Doctors Without Borders, despite its lonely efforts to blunt the disease on the front line. But as Mr. Condé played down the outbreak, Ebola was steadily entrenching itself in the forest villages where it surfaced nearly a year ago.

Now, a thousand deaths in Guinea later, Mr. Condé has reversed course 180 degrees. Disturbed by the threat to his country’s people and economy, he is grappling with Ebola nearly every waking moment. After initially overlooking the crisis, some international officials say he is now micromanaging it.

‘‘While shaving I think of Ebola, while eating I think of Ebola, while sleeping I think of Ebola,’’ Mr. Condé, 76, said at the drab concrete Chinese-built presidential palace named for Sekou Touré, the nation’s first president and strongman who forced Mr. Condé into exile in 1970, condemning him to death in absentia.

‘‘When you are at war, how can you think of anything else?’’ said Mr. Touré, leaning forward, describing his battle with Ebola in the rapid staccato delivery for which he is known.

Much of Guinea’s political establishment has been compromised by association with the country’s past autocrats, reinforcing the go-it-alone tendencies honed by Mr. Condé’s decades in exile.

The soldiers now guarding the presidential palace are aggressively loyal: Mr. Condé was the target of an assassination attempt at his home by restive army officers three years ago. A new coup is never far from his thoughts. During a news conference on Ebola last month, he veered off to warn that ‘‘those who are dreaming of a coup d’état, they are kidding themselves.’’

With an academic attention to minutiae, Mr. Condé, a former law professor at the Sorbonne in Paris with connections to George Soros and others in the global elite, is now involved in the anti-Ebola struggle down to the smallest details. (Even official communiqués call him ‘‘the professor.’’)

The amount of gas needed for motorcycles carrying disease monitors, the benefits of thermal thermometer-cameras versus hand-held ones, the construction details for treatment centers or vehicles to transport patient samples — nothing is too small to escape his attention.

Despite his own belated activism, he is furious with what he sees as incompetence. When it took months to deliver vital medicine, he lambasted the World Health Organization for the holdup.

‘‘The W.H.O. said, ‘mea culpa,’’’ he said. ‘‘I said, ‘It is not a question of mea culpa. This is a crime.’’’

Not trusting his own bureaucracy — the president is curtly dismissive of his own aides, even in front of strangers — he has created what amounts to an alternative one, say diplomats and international health officials.

‘‘He’s in a trap,’’ said a senior diplomat here. ‘‘There is no bureaucracy to carry out his writ. So he builds parallel structures with some individual.’’

The principal one is Dr. Keita, appointed as Ebola coordinator in September at the urging of the C.D.C., bypassing the hitherto ineffective Health Ministry. Diplomats and health officials here praise the efficiency of Dr. Keita, Guinea’s longtime top anti-epidemic official, describing him as the country’s de facto number two official, just under Mr. Condé himself.

But the president — who spent more than a year in the humid prisons of the then-dictator Lansana Conté with only ‘‘rats, cockroaches and mosquitoes’’ for company, according to his memoirs — is the one who gives the orders.

‘‘As far as Guinea is concerned, it is me who decides,’’ Mr. Condé said. ‘‘What is it that we need? I will fight to get it.’’

He meant it literally.

‘‘What is hallucinatory here is that it is the president who is managing the epidemic,’’ said the Doctors Without Borders chief of mission here, Marc Poncin, adding: ‘‘He’s implicating himself too directly in everything.’’

Recently, angered that work was proceeding too slowly on a treatment center, Mr. Condé ‘‘threatened jokingly to put the guy in jail if he didn’t start construction immediately,’’ Mr. Poncin recalled.

‘‘He is in a hurry,’’ said Dr. Keita, the Ebola czar.

It was not always so. At first, ‘‘there was pressure to downplay,’’ said a Centers for Disease Control official who was not authorized to speak publicly. So ‘‘there was a decision by the government — they removed probable and suspect cases’’ from the official disease tally, the official said, eliminating two categories essential for assessing the extent of the outbreak.

‘‘We need to not scare people, and companies, and airlines,’’’ the C.D.C. official recalled Guinea’s Health Ministry official leading the response saying. ‘‘He spoke of patriotic duty.’’

For many Ebola victims — especially for those who have died at home without medical attention — it is often difficult, if not impossible, to confirm the virus with an official test. But the Health Ministry doctor leading the response at the time, Sidiki Diakité, argued that only confirmed cases would be understood by the public.

‘‘When you speak of ‘probable, suspect, and confirmed,’ the population doesn’t understand what is ‘probable’ and ‘suspect,’’’ Dr. Diakité said in an interview. ‘‘You have to understand the structure of Guinean society. You’re not talking about intellectuals.’’

He added that ‘‘you have to communicate for everybody,’’ saying ‘‘we were in that logic: positive communication.’’

As for Mr. Condé’s handling of the crisis early on, ‘‘he didn’t want to see things directly,’’ said Mr. Poncin of Doctors Without Border. ‘‘He thought it could be managed.’’

That did not work. The disease was festering in Guinea’s remote villages and spreading into Sierra Leone and Liberia.

By August, with its neighbors in Ivory Coast and Senegal closing their borders, Guinea’s economy going into reverse and Ebola deaths piling up, the president underwent a conversion in desperation, say diplomats and health officials.

‘‘In August, I think he realized the gravity of the situation,’’ Mr. Poncin said. ‘‘That’s why he is interesting. Because he admitted in front of everybody that he had been wrong.’’

Now, Dr. Keita, the Ebola coordinator, said he speaks to the president four or five times a day. ‘‘So yes, there are close relations between me and him.’’

There is still much to be done: The authorities, with international help, are installing provisional treatment centers in hot spots where the disease is smoldering.

‘‘I have got to keep him very closely informed,’’ Mr. Keita said.

International Herald Tribune

Document INHT000020141126eabq0002z


EDITORIAL
Editorial Desk; SECTA
New Frontier for Ebola
By THE EDITORIAL BOARD
582 words
26 November 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
26
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
The huge, impoverished country of Mali looks like the new frontier in the fight to control the Ebola epidemic in West Africa. The virus has killed thousands in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, the three countries where the virus first emerged, but it has not gained much of a foothold elsewhere. Small outbreaks of 20 cases in Nigeria and a single case in Senegal were found in October. Now the potential for many more cases in neighboring Mali has health authorities scrambling to contain a small outbreak before it can get very far.

That will be challenging. At least six people have died from Ebola in Mali already, and the country's health officials, aided by American and international advisers, are racing to find, test and isolate, if necessary, hundreds of people exposed to an infected cleric who died in Mali last month after traveling there from Guinea. Many of the people had engaged in ritual washing of the dead imam's body, a particularly dangerous practice since the corpse is apt to be highly infectious and the mourners rarely wear protective clothing.

The dangers in Mali caused leaders in the United Nations and the World Health Organization last week to temper their earlier optimism that worst-case outcomes might be avoided if 70 percent of the dead could be buried safely and 70 percent of the sick treated by Dec. 1. Now they express doubts that the targets can be met and talk about containing the epidemic by the middle of next year.

Dr. Margaret Chan, the director general of the W.H.O., traveled to Mali on Friday to encourage health workers in the anti-Ebola effort. The United Nations said it will open an emergency response office in Mali this week, signifying its importance as the latest battleground. The next 15 days are deemed critical for ending Ebola transmission in Mali, the United Nations says.

Thus far the virus has sickened more than 15,000 people in the region and killed more than 5,400 of them, almost all within the three hardest-hit West African nations. Progress in containing the outbreaks has been spotty.

Liberia, which has suffered the largest number of infections and deaths, has succeeded in slowing the rate of increase in new cases in recent months. That success prompted the United States to reduce the number and size of the treatment facilities it is building there and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to retreat from its worst-case projections for that country. Liberia's president has set a goal of no new Ebola cases by Christmas, a target that seems too optimistic given the appearance of the virus in remote areas and even in the capital.

Sierra Leone's epidemic continues to spread rapidly while medical teams and supplies from Britain and other donors scramble to catch up. Guinea, where the outbreak first emerged, has suppressed it in some areas but not in remote jungle regions.

This is clearly no time for international agencies and national donors to let their guards down. The United States has led the international response so far by contributing the most money, equipment and manpower and prodding other nations to increase their aid. The Obama administration has requested some $6 billion to make further progress in West Africa and prepare American hospitals to cope with cases brought into this country. Congress ought to provide every penny.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141126eabq00070


A
NEW FRONTIER FOR EBOLA
68 words
26 November 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
26
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Editorial expresses alarm at possibility that Ebola outbreak might occur in Mali, noting at least six people have died from Ebola in country already; warns that international agencies and national donors cannot let their guards down; urges Congress to provide full funding for Obama administration request of $6 billion to make further progress in West Africa and to prepare hospitals at home. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141202eabq00086


World; Africa
Sierra Leone to Eclipse Liberia in Ebola Cases
By RICK GLADSTONE
594 words
27 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Sierra Leone[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/sierraleone/index.html?inline=nyt-geo] will soon displace Liberia[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/liberia/index.html?inline=nyt-geo] as the worst-hit of the West African countries ravaged by Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier], the World Health Organization[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/w/world_health_organization/index.html?inline=nyt-org] said Wednesday.

More than 600 new cases of Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] were reported in the three countries most affected — Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/guinea/index.html?inline=nyt-geo] — in the week that ended Sunday, and more than half were in Sierra Leone, according to figures in an updated summary of cases and deaths on the W.H.O. website[http://www.who.int.proxy.bc.edu/csr/disease/ebola/situation-reports/en/].

The W.H.O. update also suggested that taken together, all three countries will miss the Dec. 1 target date for achieving important progress benchmarks — 70 percent isolation of patients and 70 percent of burials performed safely. Corpses of Ebola patients are extremely infectious and are an acute source of contagion.

While Guinea has met or exceeded the benchmarks, the W.H.O. said, progress has been slower in Liberia and Sierra Leone, and that “at a national level, both countries are apparently unable to isolate 70 percent of patients.”

The updated data showed a total of 15,935 confirmed, probable and suspected cases of Ebola, nearly all of them in the three worst-hit countries, and 5,689 reported deaths.

The W.H.O. update repeated earlier cautions that uncertainties about data, and delays in reporting, had made it difficult to draw definitive conclusions.

Nonetheless, it said, based on trends of recent weeks, the rate of new cases appeared to be stabilizing in Guinea and Liberia, but still rising in Sierra Leone.

“The total number of cases reported in Sierra Leone since the outbreak began will soon eclipse the number reported from Liberia,” the update said.

Liberia still has the largest number of cases, 7,168, and deaths, 3,016. Sierra Leone has 6,599 cases and 1,398 deaths.

Among the five other countries that have reported cases imported from the outbreak region — Mali, Nigeria, Senegal, Spain and the United States — W.H.O. officials have worried the most about Mali, which is least prepared to handle an outbreak.

Six cases have now been reported in Mali traceable to an infected Muslim cleric from Guinea who died Oct. 27 after having sought treatment in Bamako, the Malian capital. The latest included the fiance of a nurse who had attended the cleric in Bamako and who died on Nov. 11, the W.H.O. reported on Tuesday[http://www.who.int.proxy.bc.edu/mediacentre/news/ebola/25-november-2014-mali/en/].

Officials in Mali are monitoring nearly 300 people in the Bamako area who had contact with the cleric.

Last weekend Dr. Margaret Chan, the W.H.O. director general, led a delegation to Mali as part of an aggressive effort to contain a potential spread of Ebola. A new coordination office was established there on Wednesday.

Ebola, first discovered in Africa in 1976, has no known cure and a fatality rate as high as 90 percent. Efforts to find a vaccine only accelerated in recent months as the outbreak in West Africa, the worst on record, threatened to spread.

Those efforts appeared to advance on Wednesday, as American researchers reported an experimental vaccine had triggered an immune response[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/specialtopic/immune-response/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] in the first 20 volunteers to test it.

The experimental vaccine, developed by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and GlaxoSmithKline, a leading drug maker, was derived from a virus that causes colds[http://health.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/common-cold/overview.html?inline=nyt-classifier] in monkeys but not humans, the institute said in a report on its website[http://www.niaid.nih.gov.proxy.bc.edu/news/newsreleases/2014/Pages/EbolaVaxResults.aspx].

Dr. Anthony Fauci, the institute director, said in the report that it planned larger human trials “based on these positive results.”

The New York Times Company

Document NYTFEED020141127eabr0005q


Fixes
Opinion
An Inclusive Emerging Economy, With Africa in the Lead
By DAVID BORNSTEIN
1758 words
27 November 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved
At a time when news about Africa has been dominated by Ebola, it’s worth observing that a highly encouraging change has been quietly spreading across the continent. Over the past five years, the number of Africans — mainly women — who have joined village-based savings and loan associations has soared to more than nine million. These groups are now operating in 40 countries in Africa. Globally, it’s estimated that 10.5 million people are members of formally trained savings groups in about 65 countries. (PDF[http://www.seepnetwork.org/filebin/docs/SG_Member_Numbers_Worldwide.pdf]) The big story about these groups, including their surprising success and emerging importance in development, comes from Africa.

“A giant informal economic system is emerging invisibly,” said Jeffrey Ashe, a micro-finance pioneer and co-author of the book[http://intheirownhands.com/] “In Their Own Hands: How Savings Groups Are Revolutionizing Development.” “We can think of it as the amoeba model of microfinance. It’s financial inclusion without financial institutions — and each group has the DNA within itself to self-replicate.” (PDF[http://www.microcreditsummit.org/uploads/resource/document/ashej_best_practices_savings_groups_community_managed_24519.pdf])

The story dates back to 1991, when a Norwegian, Moira Eknes, working with CARE in a remote part of Niger, found that village women needed ongoing access to savings and credit, but had few options. In West Africa, as in many parts of the world, locals had long participated in traditional rotating savings clubs (locally called tontines, generically known as Roscas[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rotating_savings_and_credit_association]).

Eknes helped the women develop a simple methodology that allowed them to transform the groups into a self-generating, self-managing form of microfinance suitable for their basic needs. The approach became known as the Village Savings and Loan Association[http://www.care.org/work/economic-development/microfinance] (V.S.L.A.) model and it began to spread.

The growth was supercharged in 2008 when the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation injected more than $30 million of funding into the model. (PDF[https://docs.gatesfoundation.org/Documents/one-early-success-story.pdf]) Since then, CARE has brought the program to four million[http://www.care.org/newsroom/press/press-releases/care-village-savings-and-loan-associations-surpass-4-million-members] Africans. Catholic Relief Services and Plan International[http://www.planusa.org/contentmgr/showdetails.php/id/3119884] have each brought variants to more than a million people, and Oxfam America and Freedom from Hunger have scaled up an approach, called Saving for Change[http://www.oxfamamerica.org/explore/research-publications/saving-for-change-financial-inclusion-and-resilience-for-the-worlds-poorest-people/], to 650,000 members. More than a dozen other major international NGOs have advanced this work. Collectively, they aim to reach 50 million members by 2020[http://www.oxfamamerica.org/press/international-savings-groups-ngos-aim-for-50-million-members-by-2020/].

What’s most significant about savings groups is that they are designed to be wholly managed by villagers themselves; by and large, they function as they are intended to function; and they reach impoverished people in remote rural areas who would otherwise go without any financial services, even microfinance.

The main expense is for training. Villagers are taught how to run their own meetings, develop bylaws, elect officers and keep records (where literacy levels are low, they use oral record-keeping systems). Groups usually have 20 to 25 members. Each week they collect savings. Members must contribute an amount within a set range, no more, no less. All the money is kept in a box. One standard is to have three locks and three key holders. All transactions are conducted openly before the group. Some systems use passbooks, others use ledgers.

Typically, members can apply for loans on a monthly basis. Villagers determine interest based on rules they have established themselves. They may exact fines for late payments or late meeting attendance. “All the money stays with the group, so there’s no question about extracting money off the backs of the poor to run institutions — or to enrich investors — as we’ve seen with some of the worst cases in microfinance,” said Ashe, who launched and led the Saving for Change initiative.

Members take loans for a variety of reasons: to buy medicine, start a business, purchase animals, pay school fees, buy clothing, buy food during the lean season, invest in agriculture. Repayment terms vary. At the end of the group’s cycle, usually a year, the savings and profits (from fines or interest) are distributed. And the cycle begins again.

“What makes this nice as an intervention is that it needs no financial infrastructure to make it work,” explained Dean Karlan, a professor of economics at Yale University and president of Innovations for Poverty Action (I.P.A.)[http://www.poverty-action.org], which conducted a three-year randomized controlled evaluation of the Saving for Change program in Mali[http://www.poverty-action.org/project/0054], and CARE’s V.S.L.A. program in Ghana[http://www.poverty-action.org/project/0010], Uganda[http://www.poverty-action.org/project/0110] and Malawi[http://www.poverty-action.org/project/0109]. “It needs no bricks and mortar. You just demonstrate it, walk people through it, and they can keep doing it.”

The I.P.A. study in Mali didn’t find that villagers in savings groups experienced big increases in income or consumption, Karlan said. What the savings groups did do was reduce one of the most debilitating aspects of poverty: vulnerability. “One of the things that savings is supposed to do is move money from times when you are flush to times when you are not flush,” he said. “We saw evidence that people in Saving for Change in Mali had higher food security. During the lean season — well after harvest, before the next harvest — we saw hunger go down. That’s a very important result.” (PDF[http://karlan.yale.edu/p/bkt_sfc.pdf])

Households involved in Saving for Change owned, on average, $120 more in livestock than those from the control group — a strategy used by people in Mali to reduce the risks from illness or droughts, the latter having become far more severe because of climate change.

Without savings groups, the villagers would have no other options for financial services. “For most of the areas we were working in, there is no microcredit,” Karlan said. “It’s too expensive to go out there.”

The savings groups have proven to be quite stable. And as members become skilled at managing the process by themselves, they often go on to train other villagers. Because the groups don’t require external capital, they’re not tied to the capacity of NGOs. However, I.P.A. found that organically replicating groups in Mali didn’t provide the same level of benefits to members as groups that received structured training.

Villagers are also reliable with loan repayment. “In an African village, people know one another and they can capitalize on that knowledge,” said Hugh Allen, chief executive of VSL Associates[http://vsla.net/home/services] and a former senior adviser for CARE who has played a key role spreading the V.S.L.A. model and tracking[http://thesavix.org/] savings groups at the global level. “If someone wants to take a loan to grow beans, their members might say: ‘Well, look, we know you know how to grow beans, but we think you’re being a bit ambitious.’ There’s this incredibly fine awareness of who their group members are that a financial institution cannot approach. You dare not diminish or degrade your social capital in this context.”

“We’ve seen groups working for eight or nine years without any support from us,” added Sophie Romana, director of community finance for Oxfam America. “In a day and age when everyone says international aid is inefficient, this doesn’t cost a lot of money and it can be a lifelong change. These women keep on meeting and saving together whether we’re there or not.”

As savings groups have multiplied, development organizations are looking ahead to next steps. One question is: How can the model be spread more cost effectively? Some organizations, including CARE, have enacted a fee structure in which villagers cover part of the cost of their own training. In the Saving for Change model advanced by Oxfam America and Freedom From Hunger, village-based volunteers are enlisted in some cases to train others.

But there may be other possibilities. “Up to this point the spread has been fairly mechanical,” said Kim Wilson, a microfinance expert who is a lecturer at the Fletcher School at Tufts University (and co-founder of a terrific website about micro-savings[http://savings-revolution.org/]). “You have promoters who go out and form these groups. But have we looked at mass media, local radio or TV? Can we spread the word in a way that’s more efficient than we’ve been doing?”

Another question is: What should be done with this platform and the emerging management capacity and financial skill it represents? There are two schools of thought. Proponents like Ashe and Allen would like to see development organizations keep doing what they’ve been doing: spending their time and money training more groups. But the big development groups and funders have shifted their focus to building links between savings groups and banks, looking to create mobile banking services that work for both individuals and groups (a challenge given post-9/11 “Know Your Customer[http://www.rediff.com/money/2006/sep/12guest.htm]” banking regulations.)

Allen finds this change frustrating. “In the fine old tradition of international NGOs,” he said, “if you find something that works, be creative and go mess it up.”

Lauren Hendricks, executive director of CARE USA’s Access Africa initiative, favors the shift. “Savings groups are great,” she said, “but they’re not full financial inclusion. They don’t provide all the products that people need when they need them.” CARE is now working with banks and telecommunication companies to get them to recognize the financial history and skills of people in V.S.L.A. groups, and to offer products and services tailored to their needs. “We’d like to see savings groups become a pathway for formal financial inclusion,” she added.

Oxfam America is also pursuing opportunities to build up local knowledge through savings groups. “People want to come to these meetings because money is at stake,” Romana said. “If you happen to add some lessons on health or agriculture or small business, you’ve got an audience. That’s what’s exciting.”

“As with any single strategy, this is not going to lift people out of poverty,” Ashe said. “But it’s simple, low-cost and resilient – and it can be carried out by normal NGOs and spread virally. And what’s most important is that development is truly in people’s own hands.”

Join Fixes on Facebook[http://www.facebook.com/home.php?#!/pages/Social-Change-New-York-Times/147881585260868] and follow updates on twitter.com/nytimesfixes[http://twitter.com/nytimesfixes]. To receive e-mail alerts for Fixes columns, sign up here.[http://eepurl.com/ABIxL]

David Bornstein[http://davidbornstein.wordpress.com/] is the author of “How to Change the World[http://davidbornstein.wordpress.com/books/how-to-change-the-world/],” which has been published in 20 languages, and “The Price of a Dream: The Story of the Grameen Bank[http://davidbornstein.wordpress.com/books/the-price-of-a-dream-the-story-of-the-grameen-bank/],” and is co-author of “Social Entrepreneurship: What Everyone Needs to Know[http://www.oup.com/us/catalog/general/subject/Sociology/SocialMovementSocialChange/?ci=9780195396331&view=usa].” He is a co-founder of the Solutions Journalism Network[http://solutionsjournalism.org/], which supports rigorous reporting about responses to social problems.

The New York Times Company

Document NYTB000020141128eabr00001


A
SIERRA LEONE IS EXPECTED TO ECLIPSE LIBERIA IN EBOLA CASES
By RICK GLADSTONE
62 words
27 November 2014
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
7
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
World Health Organization warns that Sierra Leone is set to eclipse Liberia as worst-hit of West African nations ravaged by Ebola; reports 600 new cases in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea in past week, suggesting that countries will miss December target for achieving important progress benchmarks. (M)

The New York Times Company (Abstracts)

Document NYTA000020141212eabr0000f


Foreign Desk; SECTA
Polio Crisis Deepens in Pakistan, With New Cases and Killings
By DECLAN WALSH; Salman Masood contributed reporting from Islamabad, Pakistan.
1300 words
27 November 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
10
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
CORRECTION APPENDEDLONDON -- Pakistan's polio crisis has reached new depths this year, health officials say, intensified by a deadly mix of ruthless militant violence, large-scale refugee displacement and political chaos that has cemented the country's role as the central global incubator of a disease that other conflict-torn countries have managed to hold in check.

The number of new Pakistani polio cases this year hit 260 this week, four times as many as at the same point last year, making a mockery of promises by Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and other politicians from across the spectrum to halt the galloping progress of the disease.

Even as domestic vaccination drives and extensive international aid have put huge numbers of anti-polio workers in the field, Pakistan's militants have seen it as an opportunity to strike at symbols of authority, portraying the workers as agents in a sinister Western plot. On Wednesday, four more health workers were gunned down, bringing the death toll among anti-polio workers to 65 since the first targeted attack in December 2012.

The attackers, who struck in Quetta, the capital of Baluchistan Province, opened fire on the workers' vehicle after demanding to know if they were involved in the anti-polio campaign. Television footage showed emergency workers carrying three other wounded workers from a van that contained abandoned slippers and blood-smeared iceboxes with polio vaccines.

The wounded, and three of the dead, were women, whose greater access to private households in conservative rural areas of Pakistan have put them in high demand as health workers.

The attackers escaped, and there was no claim of responsibility, although a Taliban splinter group said it had carried out a gun attack near Peshawar on Monday that wounded a polio worker and a student. Polio vaccinations are ''dangerous to health and against Islam,'' a spokesman for that group, Jamaat-e-Ahrar, said after the attack, echoing longstanding claims that Western countries are using immunization to sterilize Muslim children.

But the power of such conspiracy theories has been diminished by hundreds of millions of dollars in donations from Gulf countries and Islamic organizations toward the immunization campaign. Many here believe the militants simply see the attacks as another way to challenge authority. ''It's not just polio -- they want to disrupt all government activities,'' said Aziz Memon, who leads Rotary International's immunization efforts in Pakistan.

War and politics accelerated the surge in polio infections this year.

A sweeping military offensive against the Pakistani Taliban and other militant groups in the North Waziristan tribal district caused at least a million civilians to flee into neighboring areas and across the border into Afghanistan.

But few of the children in that outpouring of refugees had been immunized for polio, because vaccinators had been unable to reach the area, which for years has been the main target of American drone strikes. ''It wasn't even an underimmunized area; it was nonimmunized,'' said Dr. Elias Durry, the World Health Organization's polio coordinator in Pakistan.

As fleeing families reached refugee camps and then often moved beyond, polio infection rates soared, and the virus spread to new areas, including the country's largest city, Karachi. The number of districts infected by polio increased to 22 this year, from 10 before, and almost three quarters of the new cases came from the tribal districts of North Waziristan, South Waziristan and Khyber.

As the disease has spread, Pakistan's political leadership has been consumed by security crises and power games.

Much of the political chaos has centered on a high-stakes confrontation between Mr. Sharif and his political nemesis, Imran Khan, who since August has helped lead a protest rally in Islamabad that has demanded the prime minister's resignation and brought the government to a standstill.

Mr. Khan and another protest leader, the cleric Muhammad Tahir-ul Qadri, have accused Mr. Sharif of corruption and ineptitude, even as they, in turn, have been accused of exploiting chaos for political gain. Mr. Khan intends to hold another rally in Islamabad on Sunday, offering the prospect of fresh political drama.

Meanwhile, political and sectarian violence has heightened in Karachi, in the Pakistani heartland of Punjab, and in war-torn Baluchistan Province.

The interlocking crises surrounding Pakistan's polio emergency have had another effect: acute embarrassment among many Pakistanis who, after years of seeking to shake off Western perceptions of their country as an incubator of global terrorism, now also find it painted as a global disease hub. Regulations introduced this year require air travelers from Pakistan of all ages to produce a certificate proving that they have been vaccinated for polio. One newspaper called the epidemic Pakistan's ''badge of shame.''

In contrast, the other two countries where polio is endemic have recorded more modest infection rates. So far this year, Afghanistan has registered 21 new cases, many of which are a result of refugees fleeing Pakistan. And Nigeria, which is battling the Boko Haram insurgency and, more recently, a small outbreak of Ebola, has had just six cases.

Meanwhile, officials say Pakistan has exported the polio virus to China, Egypt and Syria -- in some cases, experts believe, via militant families traveling to the battlefields of the Middle East.

In a bid to address the problem, Mr. Sharif last month constituted an emergency response committee and administered polio drops to children at a ceremony in Islamabad on Oct. 24. Immunization was an issue of ''utmost importance'' and the right of every Pakistani child, he said.

Mr. Sharif said he hoped that the health authorities and international donors could use the coming six months, considered to be the low season for polio transmission, to reverse the tide of infections. Experts say that, even if militant violence continues, immunization is still possible provided there are adequate security precautions. Since the first death of a polio worker two years ago, health workers have delivered 450 million doses of vaccine, said Dr. Durry of the W.H.O.

In an interview, Mazhar Nisar Sheikh, a spokesman for the Health Ministry, said the virus was mostly being contained. ''Ninety percent of cases are limited to parts of the country where security has been compromised,'' he said.

Still, Baluchistan Province offers a stark illustration of polio's resurgence. Baluchistan had been polio-free for two years until July, when it recorded a case in Kila Abdullah, a remote district on a route to South Waziristan.

Since then health officials have recorded another nine polio cases in the province -- more than in Somalia, which has also suffered an outbreak this year. That caused health experts to start a targeted vaccination drive in 11 districts of Baluchistan this week, including the effort in Quetta, where the health workers were killed Wednesday.

Despite the dispiriting numbers and the violence, those at the forefront of immunization efforts in Pakistan say this is one battle the country cannot afford to lose.

''We are committed,'' said Mr. Memon, of Rotary International. ''The children of this country should walk, not crawl. We promised to end this, and we will.''

Correction: December 9, 2014, Tuesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Nov. 27 about a polio crisis in Pakistan, made worse because of attacks on health workers by militants and political chaos, misidentified one of the people who accused Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of corruption and ineptitude. He is Imran Khan, a political opponent, not Mr. Sharif himself.

Mourning at a hospital morgue in Quetta, Pakistan, for one of four anti-polio workers who were killed by gunmen on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NASEER AHMED/REUTERS)

The New York Times Company

Document NYTF000020141209eabr0006b


Letter From Europe
World; Europe
Looking Past Africa's Turmoil
By ALAN COWELL
694 words
28 November 2014
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
English
Copyright 2014. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
LONDON — Question: How does the West see Africa? Answer: Through a prism, darkly.

Africa is the Dark Continent, the Heart of Darkness. It is a somber story of disease and turmoil, corruption and despair, punctuated for decades by military takeovers, rigged ballots and wars that have done it few favors beyond securing the ambiguous gift of foreign aid.

Dystopian musings surface easily — and uncomfortably — at a time when African states and regions seem to be associated exclusively with their problems: Ebola[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/ebola/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier] in West Africa, gun crime and corruption in South Africa.

The leaders of Kenya and Sudan have been indicted by the International Criminal Court. The continent’s newest nation, South Sudan, is mired in conflict. From Nigeria to Somalia, Islamic militants hold great swaths in their thrall. The events once labeled the Arab Spring have left a bequest of chaos in Libya and strongman rule in Egypt.

In its latest report on the state of the continent’s governance, the authoritative Mo Ibrahim Foundation, which carries the name of the Sudanese cellphone billionaire who founded it, concluded that, while overall “performance has registered a slight improvement” over the five years to 2013, the pace of that improvement has slowed and “every African country has shown a decline” in one area or another.

In 2006, the foundation set up a $5 million prize to honor the leader showing the greatest commitment to democracy and good governance. Last year, for the fourth time in five years, the accolade went unawarded.

But is that the whole story? Even the question — How does the West see Africa? — betrays part of the answer, for Africa is not a single entity to be seen through a single prism. Its broad patchwork covers many nations, from sparsely populated desert expanses of Namibia to the ferment of oil-rich Nigeria.

There are some who see beyond the turmoil to a more subtle shift.

“Despite many setbacks,” said Michael Holman, a British author with long experience of the continent, “Africa is enjoying a cultural renaissance, recovering the self-confidence that had been shattered by successive traumas — the slave trade, the colonial carve-up, the Cold War, the harsh medicine of the International Monetary Fund, all compounded by bad post-independence leadership.”

But, evoking a “surge in African novels, the boom in African art, in style and fashion, in music,” there was “evidence of the ‘new Africa,”’ he said in an interview. “With a rapidly growing middle class, a commodity-fueled economic recovery, boosted by the discovery of oil and gas the length and breadth of the continent, Africa is being transformed.”

If there is a political counterpoint to those perceived trends, it might well be discerned in a series of transitions currently underway that will indicate whether individual nations can overcome challenges, including the role of Islam, the power of the military and the Big Man culture nurtured by long-serving autocrats.

In Tunisia, a runoff vote next month in the country’s first democratic presidential elections has reopened deep divisions between secularists and Islamists.

In Burkina Faso